 
       
          
          
             PLAYS,  
             Never before Printed.  
             WRITTEN  
          
          
             By the Thrice Noble, Illustrious, and Excellent  
          
          
             PRINCESSE,  
          
          
             THE  
          
          
             Duchess of Newcastle.  
          
          
             LONDON,  
             Printed by A. Maxwell, in the Year M.DC.LX.VIII.  
          
          
          
              TO THE   
          
          
              READERS.   
          
          
              I T is most certain, That those that perform Publick  
          
          
             Actions, expose themselves to Publick Censures; and  
          
          
             so do Writers, live they never so privately and retir'd, as  
             soon as they commit their Works to the Press. Which  
          
          
             should perswade wise Persons to be very cautious what they  
             publish; especially in a malicious, and envious Age. I do not  
             say, that this is so; but if it be, I can truly say, that I am  
          
          
             sorry of it, meerly for the Age's sake, and not in relation  
          
          
             to my Self, or my Books ; which I write and disperse abroad,  
             only for my own pleasure, and not to please others; being  
             very indifferent, whether any body reads them or not; or  
             being read, how they are esteem'd. For none but poor and  
             mean spirits will think themselves concern'd in spightful  
             Censures.  
          
          
             Having observ'd, that the most Worthy and most Me-  
          
          
             ritorious Persons have the most envious Detractors,it would  
          
          
             be a presumptuous opinion in me to imagine my self in danger  
          
          
             to have any: but however, their malice cannot hinder me  
             from Writing, wherein consists my chiefest delight and  
             greatest pastime; nor from Printing what I write, since I  
          
          
             regard not so much the present as future Ages, for which I  
             intend all my Books.  
          
          
              When   
          
          
          
              To the Readers.   
          
          
             When I call this new one, Plays, I do not believe to  
             have given it a very proper Title: for it would be too great  
          
          
             a fondness to my Works to think such Plays as these suitable  
          
          
             to ancient Rules, in which I pretend no skill; or agreeable  
          
          
             to the modern Humor, to which I dare acknowledg my  
          
          
             aversion: But having pleased my Fancy in writing many  
             Dialogues upon Several Subjects, and having afterwards  
          
          
             order'd them into Acts and Scenes, I will venture, in spight  
          
          
             of the Criticks, to call them Plays; and if you like them so,  
             well and good; if not, there is no harm done: And so  
          
          
             Farewell.  
          
          
              The ACTORS NAMES.   
          
          
              M Aster Save-all.  
             Captain Valour.  
             Lieutenant Fightwell.  
             Cornet Defendant.  
             Will Fullwit.  
             Harry Sencible.  
             Dick Traveller.  
             Get-all, an Usurer.  
             Serjeant Plead-all, a Lawyer.  
             Doctor Cure-all, a Physitian.  
             Roger and Tom, Get-all's two Men.  
             Two other Men, one the Serjeants, the other the  
             Doctors.  
             A Drawer.  
          
          
             Mistress Peg Valourosa Sister to Captain Valour.  
             Mistress Jane Fullwit, Will Fullwit's Sister.  
          
          
             Mistress Anne Sencible, Harry Sencible's Sister.  
          
          
             Mistress Informer, an old decay'd Gentlewoman.  
          
          
             Mistress Prudence, Daughter to Master Save-all.  
             Several Wooers, and Others.  
          
          
              PRO-   
          
          
          
              PROLOGUE.   
              N Oble Spectators, Our Authoress doth say,  
             She doth believe you will condemn her Play.  
             Here's no design, no plot, nor any ground,  
             Foundation none, not any to be found,  
             But like the World's Globe it hath no support,  
             But hangs by Geometry: nor hath it fort  
          
          
             To make it strong, nor walls to keep out censure,  
             Yet she will valiantly stand the adventure.  
          
          
              b  The   
          
          
             THE  
          
          
             Sociable Companions;  
             OR, THE  
             FEMALE VVITS:  
             A COMEDY.  
             ACTUS I. SCAENA I.  
              Enter Colonel, Captain, Lieutenant.   
          
          
              C OLONEL. What News, Captain?  
             Capt. It is an old saying, That ill  
             News hath wings, and good News  
          
          
             no legs.  
             Col. Hath thy News wings, or no  
             legs?  
             Capt. It hath wings; for it is repor-  
          
          
             ted for certain, that the Army shall be disbanded, and  
          
          
             all the Soldiers Cashiered  
             Lieut. So, then the Army will be a flying Army.  
             Capt. But yet we must beg upon Crutches.  
          
          
             Lieut. I believe We should have been stronger, if we  
          
          
              B  had   
          
          
          
             had been of any other Profession, having had a better  
             employment to have busied our minds and persons with;  
             for Soldiers for the most part, their time and lives are idle,  
             having no great employment or business, but when they  
             march or fight, which is not every day or week; and  
             when we are in Quarters or Trenches, we have nothing to  
             do but to watch by turns; and therefore we are forced (for  
             want of better employment) to pass our time with the  
             Wenches in the Suburbs, or the Baggages that follow the  
             Army, with whom we get the Pox.  
          
          
             Capt. But how shall our Pocky bodies live, if we be  
             Cashier'd?  
          
          
             Lieut. We must endeavour to get into some Hospital  
             for Cure.  
          
          
             Col. That will be more difficult, then to get into a  
          
          
             Court for Preferment, Lieutenant.  
             Capt. The truth is, we may more easily get into a  
          
          
             Court, then to have a Cure in an Hospital; and we  
          
          
             may more easily be cured in an Hospital, then get Prefer-  
             ment in a Court; for Soldiers are never regarded in time  
          
          
             of peace; for when a War is ended, Soldiers are out  
          
          
             of Credit.  
             Col. And in time of War Courtiers are out of fashion.  
          
          
             Capt. Faith, Soldiers regard not new Modes, no more  
             then Wars give ear to Flattery.  
          
          
             Lieut. But Courtiers do oftener turn Soldiers, then  
             Soldiers Courtiers.  
             Col. Faith, Lieutenant, much alike; for Courtiers are  
              too   
          
          
             Scaen. I. -The Female Wits. 3  
          
          
             too weak to make Soldiers, and Soldiers are too rough to  
             make Courtiers.  
          
          
             Lieut. How, come Courtiers weak, Colonel?  
          
          
             Col. As Soldiers come weak; for Courtiers bring  
             the Pox into an Army, and the Soldiers carry it out of  
             an Army; for there is no resemblance between a Cour-  
             tier and a Soldier, but by that disease; for the Pox make  
             Courtiers and Soldiers like unto like.  
          
          
             Capt. Well, leaving the Pox to the Courtiers, how  
             shall we that are Soldiers, live?  
          
          
             Lieut. We must rob on the King's high-way.  
          
          
             Capt. So we may chance to be hang'd.  
          
          
             Lieut. If we be, the care of a livelihood will be at an  
             end.  
          
          
             Cap. But I would not venture my life for a little mony.  
          
          
             Lieut. How ignorantly you talk Captain! for do not  
          
          
             all Soldiers venture their lives in Battel for other mens  
          
          
             sakes or Quarrels, and have no reward for their venture  
             and danger? and will such Soldiers be afraid to venture  
             their lives for themselves, and their lives maintenances?  
             Capt. But there is hope to escape death in a Battel, but  
             there is no hopes for a man to escape death when as his  
             neck is in a nouse.  
             Lieut. There is as little hopes to escape death when as  
             we have no means to live; and for my part, I had rather  
             be hang'd then starv'd; but howsoever, I am a Soldier  
             both in spirit and profession, who fears not death; and  
             you seem to be a Soldier in name, and not in nature; you  
              have   
          
          
          
             4 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I..  
          
          
             have the title of a valiant warring man, which is a Soldi-  
             er, and the nature of a Coward; otherwise, you would  
             not talk of escaping death, which shews you fear death.  
          
          
             Capt. If you were not my approved friend, you  
          
          
             should find I were no Coward as to fear to fight with  
             you; but I am afraid to die a base death, as a thief, and  
             not like a Soldier.  
          
          
             Col. How strangely you talk, Captain! are not all  
             Soldiers thieves? Do not all Soldiers Plunder?  
          
          
             Do not they take the Spoiles of their Enemies? As  
          
          
             first, kill their enemies, or take them prisoners, and then  
          
          
             seise on their goods, and all by Force? and all Force is  
             Hostility, and Hostility Robbery; and do not only the  
          
          
             common Soldiers, but we Commanders, nay, our Gene-  
          
          
             rals do the same? and yet you name Thievery and Robbe-  
             ry base, which baseness you and many more of all degrees  
             and qualities have practised and lived with this dozen years  
             to my .knowledge, and it hath been a practise ever since  
             the world began: for Adam and Eve robbed Gods Apple-  
          
          
             tree for they were forbid to take, or eat, and yet they did  
          
          
             both; and did not Cain kill his brother Abel? and was  
             not the Devil an enemy from the beginning? Thus Robbe-  
          
          
             ry, Malice, Murder and Disobedience begun from the  
          
          
             worlds Creation, and will last to the worlds Dissolution;  
          
          
             by which we may see, that our profession, which is to rob,  
             fight and kill, is the most ancient profession that is.  
             Lieut. Dear Colonel, yon have spoken most learnedly  
          
          
             and truly.  
              Capt.   
          
          
             Scene I. The Female Wits. 5  
          
          
             Cap. But yet there is a difference between a Robber, a  
             Murderer, and a Soldier; for it is Honourable to Kill  
             our Enemies in the open Field: and it is Lawful to  
             possess the Spoiles.  
          
          
             Col. Many times we Kill our Friends, especially  
             in Civil Warrs; and when we Fight with Foreigners,  
             they never did us hurt, injury, or malice; but what do  
             you talk of such Honour as Warring-Honour, which is  
          
          
             a fair Name to a foul Act; and of such Martial Law, as  
             is Lawless and most unjust, as to take away other Mens  
          
          
             Rights? 'tis all one to call black white, or white black. But  
             there is no such thing as Law, nor no such thing as Ho-  
             nour, but Man feigns or makes; butt the truth is, that  
             which Men call Law and Honour, is Power and Force: for,  
             the Strongest give Law; and Power makes Honour as it  
             pleases.  
             Cap. Your learned discourse, Colonel, shall not per-  
          
          
             swade me to Rob on the High-way.  
             Lieut. What will you do then, Cap, to get a living?  
             Cap. I will think of some honester way to live.  
          
          
             Colo. You had best Trade, and cozen your Custo-  
             mers, that is a very honest way of Living; or serve and  
             Cozen your Master, or deceive your Mistriss, that is an  
          
          
             honest way of Living; or to Flatter some great Lord,  
             or Lie with some Old Lady, that is an Honest way of  
          
          
             Living: or betray, or accuse some Rich Man, to get a  
             Morsel of his Estate for a Reward, that will be an honest  
             Living: or Debauch a young Heir to live on his Luxuries  
          
          
              and   
          
          
          
             4 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I.  
          
          
             have the title of a valiant warring man, which is a Soldi-  
             er, and the nature of a Coward; otherwise, you would  
             not talk of escaping death, which shews you fear death.  
             Capt. If you were not my approved friend, you  
             should find I were no Coward as to fear to fight with  
             you; but I am afraid to die a base death, as a thief, and  
             not like a Soldier.  
             Got. How strangely you talk, Captain! are not all  
             Soldiers thieves ? Do not all Soldiers Plunder?  
          
          
             Do not they take the Spoiles of their Enemies ? As  
          
          
             first, kill their enemies, or take them prisoners, and then  
             seise on their goods, and all by Force? and all Force is  
             Hostility, and Hostility Robbery; and do not only the  
          
          
             common Soldiers, but we Commanders, nay, our Gene-  
          
          
             rals do the same? and yet you name Thievery and Robbe-  
          
          
             ry base, which baseness you and many more of all degrees  
          
          
             and qualities have practised and lived with this dozen years  
          
          
             to my knowledge, and it hath been a practice ever since  
          
          
             the world began: for Adam and Eve robbed Gods Apple-  
          
          
             tree, for they were forbid to take, or eat, and yet they did  
             both; and did not Cain kill his brother Abel? and was  
          
          
             not the Devil an enemy from the beginning? Thus Robbe-  
          
          
             ry, Malice, Murder and Disobedience begun from the  
             worlds Creation, and will last to the worlds Dissolution;  
             by which we may see, that our profession, which is to rob,  
             fight and kill, is the most ancient profession that is.  
          
          
             Lieut. Dear Colonel, you have spoken most learnedly  
          
          
             and truly.  
              Capt.   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 5  
          
          
             swade me to Rob on the High-way.  
          
          
             Cap. But yet there is difference between a Robber, a  
             Murderer, and a Soldier; for it is Honourable to Kill  
             our Enemies in the open Field: and it is Lawful to  
             possess the Spoiles.  
          
          
             Col. Many times we Kill our Friends, especially  
          
          
             in Civil Warrs ; and when we Fight with Foreigners,  
             they never did us hurt, injury, or malice; but what do  
          
          
             you talk of such Honour as Warring-Honour, which is  
          
          
             a fair Name to a foul Act; and of such Martial Law, as  
             is Lawless and most unjust, as to take away other Mens  
             Rights? 'tis all one to call black white, or white black. But  
             there is no such things as Law, no no such thing as Ho-  
             nour, but what Man feigns or makes; but the truth is, that  
             which Men call Law and Honour, is Power and Force: for,  
             Cap. Your learned discourse, Colonel, shall not per-  
          
          
             Lieu. What will you do then, Cap, to get a living?  
             Cap. I will think of some honester way to live.  
          
          
             Colo. You had best Trade, and cozen your Custo-  
             mers, that is a very honest way of Living; or serve and  
             Cozen your Master, or deceive your Mistriss, that is an  
             honest way of Living; or to Flatter some great Lord,  
          
          
             or Lie with some Old Lady, that is an Honest wat of  
          
          
             Living: or betray, or accuse some Rich Man, to get a  
             Morsel of his Estate for a Reward, that will be an honest  
             Living: orDebauch a young Heir to live on hisLuxuries  
          
          
              and   
          
          
          
             6 The Sociable. Companions; Or, Act. I.  
          
          
             and Riots, or Corrupt young Virgins and Married  
             Wives with Pimping, that will be an honest and ho-  
             nourable Living: or be a Broker for the Courtiers, to help  
             them to sell their old Clothes: or a Rook: or be a  
             Huckster for the Courtiers, to bring them Suters and  
             Petitioners for a share of their Bribes, that will be an  
             honest Living: or frequent Taverns and Ordinaries that  
             are customed with Noble Guests, and leave them to Pay  
             thy Share, that will be an honourable Living; and an  
             Hundred such wares there be, to get an honest Living.  
             Cap. No, I will go to Plow and Cart first.  
          
          
             Lieut. What? will you be a Slave to a Horses Tail?  
          
          
             Col. No, no, I will tell you a better way for You,  
          
          
             and the Lieutenant, and my Self to Live, than that: Let  
             us get some of our Poor VVhores that followed the  
             Army; and go into some New-found Land, to help to  
             increase Plantation.  
          
          
             Cap. Contnet Colonel, but let me tell you, it will be  
          
          
             but a rotten Plantation.  
             Col. Faith all Plantations are but rottenly be-  
          
          
             gun; but the more rotten the Planters are, the better;  
             for rottennels doth, like as dung, help to Manure the  
          
          
             Land.  
             Lieu. Faith Colonel, I like your Proposition so well,  
          
          
             as I would be there.  
          
          
             Capt. So do I, wherefore let us fit and provide for  
          
          
             our Journey presently, and sing this Song.  
              The Song   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 7  
          
          
             The SONG.  
          
          
             (I)  
          
          
             Capt. Let's go to our New Plantation;  
          
          
             Let's go to our New Plantation;  
             And there we do hope,  
             No fear of a Rope;  
             Nor hanging in that Blessed Nation.  
             (2)  
             Lieut. Let's go to our New Plantation;  
             Let's go to our New Plantation;  
             For here's no Regard,  
             Nor Soldiers Reward,  
             In this most Wicked Nation.  
             (3)  
             Col. Let's go to our New Plantation;  
             Let's go to our New Plantation;  
             Each Man with his Whore,  
             Although We be poor,  
             And Rottenness is our Foundation.  
          
          
             At the end of the Song, Enters Peg Valorous  
          
          
             Peg. Then the Captain sings the burden of an old  
             Ballet.  
          
          
              Capt.   
          
          
          
             8 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act I.  
          
          
             Capt. Get thy coat Peg,  
             Get thy coat Peg,  
             Get thy coat Peg,  
             Get thy coat Peg, and go away with me.  
          
          
             Peg. You seem to be very merry Brother, that your  
             Officers and you sing so cheerfully.  
          
          
             Lieut. By your favour Mistress, some for Joy do  
             weep, and some for Sorrow sing; witness the Lamenta-  
          
          
             tion, and the Poetical Swan; and Tears are often  
             produced by Laughter.  
             Peg. What is the cause of your sorrowful singing?  
             Capt. The Army is Cashiered, and so the Soldiers  
             are undone.  
             Peg. It were better the Soldiers should be undone,  
             than the Kingdom.  
          
          
             Cornet. Will you speak against your Brother's Pro-  
          
          
             fession?  
             Peg. Yes, if it be for the general Peace at my Native  
             Country.  
             Capt. But now there is Peace, how shall we live?  
             Peg. You must live in Peace by your Wits, as you  
             lived in the Wars by your Valours.  
             Lieut. But all the Cavalier Party lost their Wits  
             when they lost their Estates.  
          
          
             Peg. Then you must Petition the State of this King-  
             dom to build so large a Bethlam as to put in all the poor  
          
          
             mad Cavaliers.  
             Capt. Your advice is good, and you shall deliver  
          
          
              their   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 9  
          
          
             their Petition, Peg; but before I go to Bethlem I will go  
             tell Harry Sensible and Will Fullwit the News.  
             Lieut. And the Cornet and I will go drink some Cor-  
             dial Waters to revive our Spirits.  
             Enter Anne Sensible, and Jane Fullwit.  
             An. Do you hear the News of the Cashiered Army?  
             Peg. Yes.  
             Jan. And are not you troubled at the News?  
          
          
             Peg. No; for I had rather my Bother should be poor  
          
          
             with Safety, then rich with Danger; but your Brothers,  
             although they have not been such Active sufferers, yet  
          
          
             they have been Passive sufferers.  
          
          
             Jane. Yes, faith, they have had their shares of Losses;  
          
          
             but now my Brother is poor, he begins to study.  
          
          
             Peg. What doth he study, his Losses?  
             Jan. No, he studies Books.  
             Peg. What books? the Crumbs of Comfort, and the  
             Soveraign Salve, for the Cure of the Soul?  
             Jan. All our Brothers had need to Study and read  
             a Cure for their Estates; but let us go and bear them  
             Company. Exeunt Anne and Jane  
             Enter Mistress Prudence to Peg.  
          
          
             Prud. Cousin Peg, where is your Companions, Nann  
          
          
             and Jane?  
             Peg. They are in their Chamber, envying your good  
             Fortune, and repining at their own ill Fortune.  
             Prud. What good Fortune do they envy me for?  
          
          
             Peg. For being the only Child, and so the only Heir  
             to a rich Father.  D   Prud.   
          
          
          
             10 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I.  
          
          
             Prud. If their Brothers had been as wife as my Father,  
             no to have been so vain to have show'd their Valour,  
             they might have been so prudent as to have kept their  
             Estates; and so you and they would not have lost your  
             Portions by the folly of your Brothers.  
          
          
             Peg. It was not through their Folly, but through their  
             Loyalty that they entered into the action of VVar.  
             Enter Nann and Jane.  
          
          
             Nan. O Mistress Prudence! 'tis a wonder to see you  
          
          
             abroad, or at home without a Gallant.  
          
          
             Prud. VVhen I come to see great Beauties, such as you  
             are, I dare not bring any of my Gallants, for fear you  
             should rob me of them.  
          
          
             Jane. It would be a Charity to bestow some of the  
             richest of your Suiters among us poor Virgins, to make  
             Husbands of; and to chuse one of the poorest of our Bro-  
          
          
             thers to be your Husband.  
          
          
             Prud. Indeed it would be a Charity to your Brothers,  
             but no Charity to my self.  
          
          
             Enter Master Saveall, Mistress Prudence's Father.  
             Sav. Save you young Beauties.  
          
          
             Peg. VVe know not whether our Beauties will save  
             us; but we shall hardly save our Beauties long; for old  
             Father Time Will take them from us.  
          
          
             Sav. Then you must get good and rich Husbands in  
          
          
             the time of your Beauties.  
             Peg. There are three difficult things to get; as first, to  
             get a Husband; next, a good Husband; and last, a rich  
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 11  
          
          
             Husband; for Men care not for handsome VVives,  
             but rich VVives; for had no my Cousin Prudence, your  
             Daughter, VVealth as well as Beauty, she might have  
             many Lovers, but not a Husband amongst them all.  
             Sav. Cousin Peg, you may get rich Husband, not  
             only by the means of your Beauty, but by your VVit.  
             Peg. I have heard, that in former Ages, that many Men  
             did live by their VVits; but in this Age Wit is out of  
             fashion, and so out of practise, and so poor, as 'tis al-  
             most strange.  
             Enter Captain.  
             Sav. I am talking to your Sister my Cousin Peg, and  
          
          
             I perceive she despairs of getting a Rich Husband.  
          
          
             Capt. She hath reason, being poor her self; wherefore  
          
          
             Peg, and her two dear Friends, Mistress Anne, and  
          
          
             Mistress Jane, must lead Apes in Hell.  
          
          
             An. If the Devil hath as many Apes as Mens follies,  
          
          
             we shall never be able to lead them all.  
             Sav. For fear my Daughter should lead Apes in Hell,  
          
          
             I will go and get her a Husband.  
          
          
          
             12 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             ACTUS II. SCENA I.  
          
          
             Enter William Fullwit, and set at a Table with many Books  
          
          
             about him. He reads, Enter to William Fullwit, Captain  
             and Harry Sensible.  
          
          
             Harry.  
             Baccus and Mercury help thee, and have mercy on  
          
          
             thee, for I perceive you are falling into Perdition,  
          
          
             as from a Drunkard to a Student; from a merry Com-  
          
          
             panion, to a dull Stoick; from a Wit to a Fool.  
          
          
             Will. I pray thee Harry leave me, for I am studying  
             to be a wise Man.  
             Capt. Faith Will, VVisdom is not learned by the  
             Book, but by Practise, which gets Experience; for Wis-  
          
          
             dom lives with living Men, more then with dead Authors:  
             But prithee tell us, what Books are you reading?  
          
          
             Will. I am reading Plutarch's Lives, Thucidides, Ma-  
             chiavel, Commineus, Lucan, Cesars Commentaries, and the  
             like.  
          
          
             Harry. Why such Books, since you are neither Greek  
             nor Roman? So that those Histories, or Historians of  
             other Nations will not benefit thee, nor thy Native  
             Country for their Laws, Customs, or Humours: for  
          
          
             what are the Laws, Customs, Humours and Governments  
          
          
             of the Romans, Greeks, Turks, or Persians to thee, or thy  
             Native Country?  
          
          
              Capt.   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 13  
          
          
             Capt. You say true, Harry; and what are their Wars,  
             or Peace to us, unless the same Cause, the same Places,  
             and the same Men, were again in our time? For put the  
          
          
             case you were a General, and were to fight a Battel, and  
          
          
             would make Cæsar your Pattern, it were a thousand to  
          
          
             one but you would shew your self rather a Fool, then a  
          
          
             Cæsar; for first, the Causes of War would be different;  
             the Scituation of War different; the Humours of the  
             Soldiers different; the Habilements, Postures, and Bree-  
             ding of the Men different ; the Means, Supplies,Supports,  
             Armes, Time,Place, and Seasons different: So that if later  
             Commanders should follow the Precepts of former Com-  
             manders and old VVarriers, they would be losers; and  
             instead of being fam'd good Soldiers, get the reproach of  
             being ill Conductors.  
          
          
             Harry. You say right, Captain; and as for Foreign  
          
          
             Government, History is of no use, unless you would  
             bring an Innovation; for which, had you power to make  
          
          
             Combustions, you would sooner ruine the Kingdom,  
             then alter the Government; besides, in all Alterations,  
             Fortune hath greater power, and is more predominant  
             then Prudence: wherefore leave thy impertinent Studies.  
             Will. I will take your Counsel.  
             Enter Lieutenant Drunk, and comes Reeling in.  
             Lieut. Captain----Captain ----I would fain speak,very----  
             fain speak a speech--- but I shall be out of my speech, be-  
             fore I begin, and that would be a very fowl disgrace----  
             to a man of parts.  
          
          
              E  Capt.   
          
          
          
             14 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
             Capt. 'Tis true, Lieutenant; but a drunken man hath  
             no parts, for he is a departed man, Lieutenant.  
             Lieut. But I would have declared the strange effects----  
             the Magical effects---the Mystical effects---and the Ty-  
             rannical effects.  
             Capt. All which Effects meet in one Effect, which is to  
             be drunk, Lieutenant.  
             Lieut. That is true Captain----but the strange Postures,  
             several Humours, senceless Brains, and disabled limbs----  
             is that which I would declare.  
             Will. They will declare themselves, Lieutenant, without  
             the help of Rhetorick.  
          
          
             Lieut. You are a fool, Will; for they will want help, as  
          
          
             you may perceive by me----up----  
             He Reels as he speaks.  
             Will. But Words are too weak to support them.  
             Lieut. But Words may excuse them.  
             Enter Mistress Peg.  
             Peg. Brother, there is a Gentlewoman without, that  
             came with the Lieutenant, who says she will not go with-  
             out him.  
             Capt. Lieutenant, there is Gentlewoman stayes to sup-  
             port thee to thy rest.  
             Lieut. It is a Cousin of mine---newly come out of the  
             Country----but I will go to her----up----  
             Capt. We will help to lead thee to her.  
             They lead him forth. Exeunt Men.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 15  
          
          
             Enter Mistress Jane, and Mistress Anne, to Mistress Peg.  
             Jane. Where is the Lieutenant? 'tis said, he is so drunk,  
             he can neither stand nor speak.  
             Peg. The truth is, he doth both, but ill-favouredly.  
             Enter Mistress Informer.  
             Peg. Mistress Informer, you are welcome.  
             Inform. I know that, otherwise I would not visit you;  
          
          
             but I seldom fail seeing you once a day, unless I be out  
          
          
             of Town; but now I came out of Charity, knowing  
             you were all alone.  
             Peg. How did you know we were all alone?  
             Inform. Because I met your Brother, Captain Valour,  
          
          
             and Harry Sencible, Mistress Ann's Brother, going up the  
          
          
             Street.  
          
          
             Jane. Was not my Brother with them?  
          
          
             Inform. No; I saw Will Fullwit go to the Play-house.  
             Jane. What Play-house? the Gaming-house, or the  
          
          
             Acting-house?  
             Inform. The Acting-house.  
          
          
             An. Our Brothers might be so kind, as sometimes to  
          
          
             carry us to Plays.  
             Peg. So they would, if we were such Cousins as the  
          
          
             Lieutenant had here; but being their Sisters, they will not  
             be troubled with us.  
          
          
             Inform. Now you talk of the Lieutenant, it puts me  
             in mind, l met him in the Street leading a Gentlewoman.  
          
          
             Peg. l believe she rather led him, then he her.  
             Inform. I know not which, led which; but neither of  
          
          
              the   
          
          
          
             16 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             them did walk steddily, for sometimes they went towards  
             the Wall, and then presently towards the Kennel.  
          
          
             Peg. It was a sign they were both drunk. But Mistris  
          
          
             Informer, have you brought the new-fashioned Hanker-  
             chief to see.  
             Inform. Yes, but I have left it in your Chamber.  
             Peg. Come let us go see it.  
             Enter Will Fullwit musled in his Cloak.  
             Will. Sister Jane, is Harry Sencible within?  
          
          
             Jane, I cannot tell whether he be returned; but he was  
          
          
             abroad?  
             Will. Pray see; and if he be return'd, bid him come to  
             me.  
          
          
             Enter Harry Sencible, Will Fullwit upon the Ground,  
             be groans, Harry Sencible runs and embraces him.  
             Harry, Dear Will, what is the cause you lieso sadly?  
             VVill. Oh,oh,I am wounded, wounded.  
          
          
             Harry. VVhere? where? tell me dear Will.  
          
          
             VVill. I am kill'd, I am kill'd.  
             Harry. By whom?  
          
          
             VVill. I die; I die.  
          
          
             Harry.? Hold Life a little time, so long to tell thine  
             Enemy, that I may sacrifice him on thy Tomb; Oh he is  
             dead: dear VVill, I wish to die, since thou art gone.  
          
          
             Exit Harry Sencible VVeeping.  
          
          
             After he was gone out, Vvill Fulwit rises and Dances,---  
          
          
             then enter Harry Sensible, with Captain Valour, Lieu-  
          
          
             in a Maze.  Capt.   
             in a Maze.  Capt.   
          
          
             Exeunt all but Jane.  
          
          
             Will Fullwit upon the Ground,  
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 17  
             Capt. Harry, did not you tell us, that VVill Fullwit  
             was kill'd?  
             Harry. I thought him dead.  
             Capt. Then how the Devil Comes he to be alive again!  
             Enter Mistress Anne Sencible as in hast.  
             An. O, where is Mr. Fullwit's body?  
             He Addresses to her.  
             Will. Dear Lady, I, for thy dear sake,  
             Will travel to the Stigean Lake;  
             There let us meet, and then imbrace,  
             And look each other in the Face.  
             An. O the Lord, what doth he ayle?  
             Enter Mistress Peg Valourosa.  
             Will. O stand away,  
             For there breaks day;  
             The Sun doth rise,  
             Dazling mine Eyes :  
             For you the Goddess are of Light,  
             She's a fiend that governs Night;  
             Harry. By heaven he is stark mad.  
             Will Fullwit draws his Sword.  
             Will. Here will I fight  
             As Champion Knight.  
             The Ladies run squeeling away.  
             Will. What, are they gon?  
             They do me wrong.  
             Lieut. You have frighted them away.  
             Harry. Dear Will, put up thy Sword, for we are all  
          
          
             thy Friends.  Will.   
          
          
          
             18 The Sociable Companions ; Or, Act. II  
             Will. You are my Foes, I say,  
             Wherefore away.  
             Harry. This madness is worse, far worse then death.  
             Harry Sencible. VVeeps.  
             Will. What Harry, do you weep in earnest?  
          
          
             Harry. How can I chuse, to see my friend in a mad  
          
          
             distemper?  
          
          
             Will. Why Harry? I have only acted an Intrigue.  
          
          
             Capt. A pox of your Intrigue; for you have frighted  
             the Ladies, and disturbed your Friends.  
          
          
             Lieut. Nay faith, he hath disturbed the Ladies, and  
             frighted his Friends.  
          
          
             Harry. But how came you to be in this humour?  
          
          
             Will. With seeing a new Play.  
          
          
             Cornet. But you have not acted an Intrigue yet.  
          
          
             Will. That's true, by reason the Ladies went away,  
             and Harry's Tears would not suffer me to make more  
             changes; beside I had not time to express, or act my In-  
             trigue; but if you will call the Ladies again, you shall see  
             me act an Intrigue and Catastrophe, as it ought to be.  
             Harry. Hang Intrigues and Catastrophes, and play  
             fool no more.  
          
          
             Capt. Prithee Will, go with us to a Tavern, and there  
             we will have several sorts of Wine, changes of Musick,  
             and variety of Mistresses, which are better Intrigues and  
             Catastrophes then are acted upon the Stage.  
          
          
             Will. Content, let us.go, to dry up Harry's Rhume  
             with Sack, and to let him see I am still a merry Companion.  
          
          
               Harry.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 19  
             Harry. If I had known you had dissembled, I would  
          
          
             not have discovered my love.  
          
          
             ll. Why? Love and Deceit is an Intrigue ; but the  
             truth is, I did this, that you and the Captain should not  
             believe that I was a dull Stoick.  
          
          
             Enter Dick Traveller, as newly return'd home.  
          
          
             Will. DickTraveller, art thou return'd,old blade, from  
             thy Foreign Travels, to thy home-Friends?  
          
          
             Dick. I confess Foreign Travellers are apt to lose  
          
          
             home-Friends.  
          
          
             Will But you have not lost us, for thou art heartily  
             welcome.  
             Harty. 'Tis a sign that your Travels have been as cold  
             as far, for you have brought white Hairs home with you.  
             Lieut. He could not avoid a white head; for he hath  
             been at the North Pole, which hath turn'd his Hairs to  
          
          
             Snow.  
             Dick. I have been near the Pole in Greenland.  
          
          
             Cornet. Is that Country fertile?  
          
          
             Dick. Yes, of Frost and Snow.  
          
          
             Cornet. Is it Populous ?  
          
          
             Dick. Tis very populous of Bears and Foxes.  
             Lieut. Is it a good place for Plantation ?  
             Dick. Yes faith, for if there were a Colony of Adul-  
          
          
             terers sent thither, they might Plant Chastity; and if a  
             Colony of Drunkards were sent thither, they might Plant  
             Temperance; also if a Colony of Prodigals were sent  
             thither' they might Plan Frugality.  
              Will.   
          
          
          
             20 The Sociable Companions ; Or, Act. II  
          
          
             Will.But might not a Colony of Fools plant Wit there?  
             Lieut. It were excellent Policy, to send all the Fools  
             thither.  
             Dick. Those Parts of the World would not hold  
             them, if all be sent; for most Men are Fools.  
          
          
             Capi. VVhy fools in what part of the VVorld so-  
             ever, they live in Twilight ; and neer the Pole is Twilight  
             half the year.  
          
          
             Will. Prithee let's leave talking of such cold Elements;  
          
          
             for the very hearing of North Pole hath chil'd my  
             Spirits, as if they were hard frozen, and all my thoughts  
             are turn'd to Snow; wherefore let's go to a Tavern, and  
             drink Sack to thaw them.  
          
          
             Dick. I shall bear you Company.  
          
          
             VVill. Faith thou hast reason to drink ten Fathom  
             deep to melt thy frozen body, and thaw thy cold blood  
             that is turn'd to Ice, that Spirits of life may swim in  
          
          
             full large Veines.  
             Dick. You are full of Poetical fancy.  
          
          
             VVill. 'Tis a sign I did never travel to the North Pole,  
          
          
             for fancy lies in East and VVestern brains; the truth is,  
             every Poets brain is a Torrid Zone; wherefore let's go to  
             the Tavern.  
             Harry. That is under the Ecliptick Line.  
             Enter Peg and Anne.  
             Capt. Are you come to see the Intrigue?  
             Peg. No, but we are come to see, whether VVill Full-  
             wit be not dead again.  
              VVill.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 21  
          
          
             VVill. No; but I am not so well, but the these good  
             fellows, are going to give me a Cordial.  
             Dick. To me these Ladies are Cordials.  
          
          
             Will. You have not tasted them yet.  
          
          
             Dick. May I presume to salute you, Ladies?  
             He Salutes them.  
             Harry. How do you like them?  
          
          
             Dick. It is not a question to be asked, nor I to give and  
          
          
             answer.  
             Capt. Prithee come away, and leave Complementing.  
             Enter Jane. Exeunt Men.  
          
          
             Peg. Did you see Dick Traveller.  
          
          
             Jane. Yes, I met him, and all the crew of them.  
             Peg. I have seen thy Brother stark mad.  
             Jane. I never knew him otherwise.  
             An. He did only shew an Intrigue.  
             Enter Mistress Informer.  
          
          
             News brought you hither?  
          
          
             Inform. Hearing Master Traveller was to see you  
             Peg. He was so.  
          
          
             Inform. Pray what new fashions hath he brought from  
             the North Pole ?  
             Peg. I do not perceive any new fashion.  
          
          
             Inform. Lord, how reports prove false! for I heard he  
             had a strange fashioned Suit of Clothes which he did wear,  
          
          
             made all of Ice, and a great thick Cap of Snow, which  
             he wore over his head; and that the motions of his Body.  
          
          
               G   and   
          
          
          
             22 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             and Behaviour were trembling and shaking, as if he were  
             affrighted, or in a cold fit of an Ague, and that his lan-  
             guage was such a stuttering and stammering lan-  
             guage, as not any ma in these parts could understand  
          
          
             him.  
             Peg. I saw no such Clothes or Cap that he wore, nor  
             heard no such stuttering stammering language.  
          
          
             Inform. Indeed, as to his Garments, I did not believe  
             reports ; for I said to those persons, that told that report  
             for a certain truth, that I could sooner believe  
             he was accounted in a Suit of Fire, rather then of Ice;  
          
          
             but they replyed, That those parts of the World, so  
          
          
             neer the Poles, would not permit Fire;for the extream cold  
             did put out all sorts of Fire; but pray tell me whether he  
             doth not look very pale, wither'd dry and old.  
             Peg. He doth not look as if he were a very young  
             man, because he is in some years; but he looks well for  
             his age.  
             Inform. What kind of Men, doth Mr. Traveller say,  
             are the Natives at the Pole ?  
             Peg. I did not hear him say, there be either native  
             Men or Women.  
             Inform. If not, how did he get a Mistress?  
             Jane. Such colds Elements do not require Courtship.  
             Inform. But are there not any living Creatures there?  
             Peg. Yes, there are Bears; and in some of the Islands  
             near the Poles, there are white Bears, with red Patches on  
             their heads.  
              Inform.   
          
          
             Inform. That is very fine, and surely very becoming;  
             wherefore I will inform the Ladies, who I am sure will  
             follow that fashion.  
             An. How can they be in the Bears fashion?  
             Inform. Very easily; for they may have a white Sattin  
          
          
             Gown, and a red Velvet Cap; and so be like the white  
          
          
             Beares, with the red Patches on their heads.  
             Peg. If they imitate nothing else of the Bear but that,  
             it will not be a much a miss.  
             Inform. Fare you well; for I long to carry the News of  
             the Fashion. Exit.  
             Enter Will Fullwit.  
             Will. Is Harry returned?  
             An. No. Exeunt Women.  
             Enter Harry.  
             Will. I was going to the Tavern, believing you and  
             the rest of our Companions, were gone to the Tavern.  
             Harry. I stay for Dick Traveller; but Captain Valour,  
             Lieutenant Fightwell, and Cornet Defendant, are gone be-  
             fore to the Tavern, to provide us good Wine.  
             Will. They will be drunk before we come.  
             Harry. Surely they will forbear drinking until we come.  
             Will. How should they forbear drinking, if they went  
             to last the Wine?  
             Harry. They went to bespeak good Wine, and not  
             to last it.  
             VVill. Hang them, they will tast pint after pint, and  
             quart after quart; for they have not so much Temperance  
             as to stay.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
          
             24 The Sociable Companions: Or, Act. II  
          
          
             Enter Dick Traveller.  
             Will. Dick, a Pox take you for staying, for the Cap-  
             tain, Lieutenant, and Cornet have drank all the Wine in  
             the Tavern by this time.  
             Dick. They cannot drink all.  
             VVill. Yes but they can; for they will pour in out  
             so fast, as I am confident they have not left so much as  
             the droppings of the Tapes.  
          
          
             Harry. Come, come, let us make hast to them.  
          
          
             VVill. Yes, when all is drunk up.  
          
          
             Harry. I will warrant you there will be enough left  
          
          
             to quench our drought.  
             VVill. I hate quenching of droughts; I would be like  
             a Ship, to swim in an Ocean of Wine.  
             Enter Mistress Informer.  
             Informer. Are you Sisters within?  
             VVill. Yes. Exeunt Men.  
          
          
             Enter Peg, Jane and Anne.  
          
          
             Peg. Mrs. Informer, what is the reason you are returned  
             so soon?  
             Inform. The reason is, that I had forgot to tell you of  
             the good company I was in the other day.  
          
          
             Jane. We heard that you were in Sociable Company.  
             Inform. I was so; and the Company hath past their  
          
          
             time with all the delightful Recreations that could be de-  
          
          
             vised, for the time they associated together: for sometimes  
          
          
             the Ladies, and their courting Servants,play'd at Cards, and  
          
          
             sometimes danced and sometimes feasted, and some of the  
              fairest   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 25  
          
          
             fairest Ladies sat to have their Pictures drawn, whilst  
             their Lovers or Friends gazed on their Faces; which was  
             an occasion to cause those Ladies to put their Faces into  
             their best Countenances; and some of the Gallants did  
             make their Mistresses Portraictures, both in Verse and  
             Prose; whilst the Painter did draw their Pictures in Oyle  
             or water-Colours.  
          
          
             Peg. It seems the Gallants were Courtly to the Ladies,  
          
          
             Inform. They were so.  
             Jane. Doth the Men court the Woman publickly  
          
          
             or incognito?  
             Inform. They Court both ways: for every Man hath,  
             his particular, which he doth usher; but if the like each  
             other's Lady and Mistress better then their own, or Love's  
          
          
             variety,or would be liked,or loved by more then his own  
          
          
             Woman: They make Love incognito, as in a Mistical  
             or Allegorical way; which Allegorical-Love's making, or  
             woings, pleases the women infinitely, as by side eye-glan-  
          
          
             ces, languishing looks, smothered sights, and metaphori-  
          
          
             cal speeches; as also wrying their Necks, with their eyes  
             fixt on the ground, or falling, or stumbling upon them,  
             as if it were by chance; and many the like Behaviors,  
             Garbs, Motions, Countenances and Discourses , as I  
             cannot remember to repeat all; and some are so excellent  
          
          
             and well experienced in the Art of making Love incogni-  
          
          
             to Allegorically, or Metaphorically , as I have known or  
             observed one Man to make half a dozen Women at least  
             at one time, believe he hath been deeply in Love with  
             each of them.  H   Jane.   
          
          
          
             26 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Jane. And do the Women receive these fashioned  
             Courtships in the like manner ?  
             Inform. Yes, for they are as expert as the Men in  
             those ways; the truth is, that although every Man and  
             every Woman hath a Staple Servant, and a Staple Mi-  
             stress, yet they traffick all in common.  
          
          
             Jane. It seems they are common Wooers: But farwell,  
             I must go speak with my Brother Fullwit.  
          
          
             Inform. You must go to the Tavern then.  
          
          
             Jane. VVhy,is he gone to the Tavern ?  
          
          
             Inform. Yes,I did hear him,Mr. Sencible, and Mr.Tra-  
          
          
             veller say, they would go unto the Crown-Tavern.  
             Peg. l am sure my Brother and his Officer are there  
             before them.  
             Jane. It is not to be endured they should spend so  
             much, and we want so much as we do.  
             Inform. If I might advise you Ladies, I would have  
             you go and bear them Company.  
             Jane. VVe will take your advice , although not to  
             drink, yet to quarrel, and you shall be our Conductor.  
             Peg. Those that see us will believe that Mrs. Informer  
             is a Bawd, that conducts three young VVenches to some  
             Gentlemen in the Tavern.  
          
          
             Inform. Come, come, for if I be, it is not the first time  
             I have been taken for a Bawd. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Seen. II. The Female Wits. 27  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter Captain Valour, Lieutenant Fightwell, and Cor-  
             net Defendant, as in a Tavern, who drink whilst they  
             talk.  
          
          
             Cornet.  
              C Aptain, let us not stay for Will, Harry and Dick,  
             but drink in the mean time.  
          
          
             Capt. Content, let us fit close, and drink hard;for here  
             is the best Wine; it was drawn out of Bacchus Cellar,  
             wherefore it is divine Wine.  
          
          
             Lieut. If it be divine, we should pray before we drink.  
          
          
             Capt. No you must drink first, as into a drunken hu-  
          
          
             mour with divine Wine, and then pray when the Spirit  
          
          
             is strong in you.  
          
          
             Lieut.- lt is unnatural, Captain , at least unusual for  
          
          
             Martial men to pray; in so much, that if a Soldier should  
          
          
             be seen or heard to pray,he would be thought a Coward.  
             Capt. That is not so, for we were beaten by those that  
          
          
             Prayed.  
          
          
             Cornet. But some of our Party prayed.  
          
          
             Capt. If they did,it was so softly, as Jupiter could not  
             hear them : But I have drunk my self into a loving hu-  
             mour, I wish I had a Wench.  
          
          
             Cornet. We will knock for the Chamberlain.  
             Enter Chamberlain.  
             Capt. Chamberlain, get us some Wenches.  
              Chamb.   
          
          
          
             28 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
             Chamb. There are none to be half, Sir.  
          
          
             Capt. You are a lying Rogue; for there hath been no  
             age, nor there is not a Kingdom that is not fully stored  
             with them.  
          
          
             Chamb. There is store in the Kingdom, if it please  
          
          
             your Worship , but they are not for Soldiers in this  
             age.  
          
          
             Capt. You lie, you Rogue, they are for Soldiers in  
          
          
             all ages, even in the worst of times; for they will venture  
          
          
             their lives to follow the Army for the pleasure of a Soldier.  
          
          
             Chamb. An't please your Worship, it is for the hopes  
          
          
             of gaining some of the Soldier's Plunder; but now that  
          
          
             your VVorships can neither get Plunder nor Pay, they  
          
          
             defie you, and will not come near you, but laugh at you,  
          
          
             and say you are like old rusty Armes out of fashion, and  
             that they are now for the Court, not for the Camp.  
          
          
             Capt. Man'd Fortune, shall the Court rob us, both  
          
          
             of wealth and pleasure?  
             Enter Vvill Fullwit, Harry Sencible, and Dick Traveller,  
             the Captain drinking when they came in.  
          
          
             Will. Hold, hold, Captain, what a Devil, are you mad  
             to drink before we come?  
          
          
             Capt. You are mad to stay so long, would you have  
             us choakt for thirst?  
             Dick. Come, come, we shall overtake them.  
          
          
             Capt. But you shall not, for we will, now you are  
             come, sit and drink healths, as health for health.  
             Will. Is there VVine enough to drink Healths?  
          
          
              Capt.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Female Wits. 29  
          
          
             Capt. Enough, Will, enough.  
             They sit down and call for Wine.  
             Capt. Dick, you are not returned as a Traveller a la  
             mode.  
             Dick. Volume you have me a la mode de Bear, or a  
             la mode de Fox.  
             Capt.VVhy not as well as other Travellers, that return  
             a la mode de Ape, and a la mode de Ass?  
             Will. Well, leaving the Beats, Foxes; Asses and Apes;  
             here is a health to the North Star.  
             Harry. That is a very cold Star, Will.  
          
          
             Will. Therefore I will drink the health in Sack, to hear  
          
          
             it into a Sun.  
          
          
             Harry. And I will drink a health to Virtue.  
          
          
             Capt. You had better put Ice into your Wine then  
             Virtue; for she is so cold, not any heat can thaw her;  
             but I will drink a health more proper, for Dick Traveller's  
             company, which are the seven deadly sins.  
          
          
             Dick. They belong more to the Courtier then the  
             Traveller; yet I will pledge them, were they seventy se-  
             ven sins, and drink them all at a draught.  
             Lieut. But that is unconscionable to drink them all,  
             leaving not any for your Friends.  
             Dick. All those I account my Friends, that have wit  
             enough to get, or invent more; for new-fashioned Sins  
             are as easily devised as new-fashioned Garments.  
          
          
             Will. Who is the maker of new-fashioned Sins?  
          
          
             Dick. The Devil.  
          
          
              I  Enter   
          
          
          
             30 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Enter Jane, Anne, Peg, and Informer.  
             Capt. But what the Devil makes these VVomen come  
             hither ?  
             Will. Ladies, this is boldly done, to come and drink  
             healths with us.  
             Capt. 'Tis but changing of Sisters, and they will serve  
             us for VVenches, and Mrs.Informer, my Cornet or Lieu-  
             tenant shall pay her for their Company.  
             Jane. VVe came not to drink, but to complain that  
          
          
             our Brothers should be unkind, unworthy and unna-  
          
          
             tural, to fit drinking to fill their Heads, and empty their  
          
          
             Purses, when we want Meat and Clothes.  
             Peg. You can be Jovial, but we must be Melancholy;  
          
          
             you sing Catches, when we shed Tears.  
          
          
             An. You have many Bottles of VVine, when we  
          
          
             want Smocks to our backs.  
          
          
             Will. But you have silk Gowns.  
             Jane. Yes, such as you buy at the second hand, or at  
          
          
             some Broker's shop, which are more rotten then the Jews  
          
          
             Clothes in the VVilderness.  
          
          
             Harry. VVhy, what would you have us to do?  
          
          
             An. Not to sit drinking in a Tavern most of your  
          
          
             time; but to seek and endeavour to get some good Offices  
             and Employments that may help to repair your ruins,  
             and to maintain us according to our births and breedings.  
             Will. Faithe, we may seek, and not find; beg, and not  
             get.  
             Peg. But yet you shall not need to spend that little  
             which is left, in drink.  Lieut.   
          
          
             Seen. III. The female Wits. 31  
          
          
             Lieut. It if were not for drink, we should run mad; but  
             drink drowns all sorts of sorrows.  
             Capt. Leave your Caterwouling, and get yon hence.  
             Peg. We will not go home, unless you will go with us.  
             Will. Yes, so it will be though, you are our Wen-  
             ches, not known you are our Sisters.  
             Jane. We care not what people think, knowing our  
             selves honest.  
             Harry. Come, let us go, otherwise they will scould so  
             loud, as all the Street will be in a hubbub to know the  
             cause. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III  
             Enter Father and his Daughter.  
             Father.  
              D Aughter, you being now Marriageable, I am resol-  
          
          
             ved to provide you a good Husband.  
          
          
             Daught. I am willing to be a Wife; but pray pardon  
             me if I ask you what you mean by a good Husband?  
             Fath. A good Husband, is a prudent Husband.  
             Daught. That is a miserable and jealous Husband.  
             Fath. No, no, mistake me not, for miserableness and  
             jealousie are extreams, but Prudence is a mean.  
             Daugh. If I must marry according to a Moral mean,  
             which is between extreames, then I must Marry a man of a  
             mean Birth, mean Breeding, mean Estate, mean Wit,  
              mean   
          
          
          
             32 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
             mean Judgment, mean Understanding, mean Esteem,  
             mean Behaviour, and the like.  
          
          
             Fath. No Daughter, I only desire you not to be an  
             extream fool, as to marry to extream misery; but since  
             you dispute for wisdom or discretion, I'le give you leave  
             to make your own choice, which will tend either to my  
             grief or comfort; to your own happiness or unhappiness;  
             and I shall see whether you can act as wisely, as you plead  
             wittily. Exit Save-all, and then enters a Suiter.  
          
          
             Enter the young Lady, and a young Gentleman a Suiter.  
          
          
             to her.  
             Suit. Madam, your Beauty is the Gaze or Blaze to all  
          
          
             the World; nay, 'tis not only a mortal but an immortal  
          
          
             Light, and as the soul, not of on humane Creature but  
             of all the World; which immortal light and soul I am  
             very delirous to enjoy, and to make you my VVife.  
          
          
             Lady. Sir, I shall readily consent, upon condition you  
             make me a present of the Alkabest, and a jointure of the  
          
          
             Elixir. Exit Lady, Suiter Solus.  
          
          
             Suit. This Lady is not to be won with Complements  
          
          
             of learning.  
          
          
             Enter another Gentleman.  
          
          
             Gent. VVell met Sir ; have you seen the Lady ?  
          
          
             Suit. Yes.  
          
          
             Gent. And how do you agree?  
             Suit. Just as Chymists and Fire.  
          
          
             Gent. How is that?  
             Suit. That is, they do not agree at all, but delude and  
          
          
             cross each other.  Gent.   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The Female VVits. 33  
          
          
             Gent. Nay, faith, if she be in a cross humor, I will  
          
          
             not plead and present my suit to her to day.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
             Enter Harry, and walks in a Musing Posture.  
          
          
             Enter Captain.  
          
          
             Captain.  
              VV Hat is the cause you walk in such a musing.  
          
          
             posture Harry?  
             Harry. I have lost my Mistress.  
             Capt. Is that all?  
             Harry. Yes, and too much.  
             Capt. Art thou mad?  
             Harry. No.  
             Capt. Have you any Wit?  
             Harry. Why do you ask?  
             Capt. Because you are Melancholy for a Woman.  
             Harry. It would make you or any man Melancholy,  
             to lose such a Woman as my Mistress is.  
             Capt. Faith, not unless my Mistress were the only Wo-  
             man in the World.  
             Harry. She was the only Woman in my affection.  
             Capt. 'Tis a sign thy affection is a poor, mean, low,  
             narrow, and little affection, that hath but one Room for  
             one Mistress; whereas, my affection is as large as the Grand  
             Signior's Seraglio it Wall- Hundreds of  
              K   ses,   
          
          
          
             34 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
             ses, with all their Maids and Slaves attending upon them;  
             the truth is, my affection will hold all the Women in the  
             VVorld; for I love all Women-king, in so much as I  
             can never want love so long as there be VVomen, or a  
             VVoman; and surely I can never want a VVoman so  
             long as the VVorld doth last; for the VVorld doth not  
             increase any thing so numerously as Women; for all  
             Armies, Nations, Cities, Towns, Villages, Houses,  
             Churches and Chambers are for the most part filled with  
             Women; and since there are so many Women, it were  
             a madness for to be Melancholy for the loss of one woman:  
             wherefore put off this whining humuor for shame, and  
             get another Mistress; and if I might advise you, I would  
             have four and twenty Mistresses, at least, at one time, and  
             so you will have a Mistress for every hour of the day and  
             night.  
             Harry. But my Mistress is a woman that doth excell  
             all her Sex.  
             Capt. In what?  
             Harry, In Beauty, Wit and Virtue.  
          
          
             Capt. Nay, if you talk of Virtue in a Mistress, you are  
             mad indeed.  
             Harry. May not a Man have a virtuous Mistress?  
          
          
             Capt. No, for it is against the rules and nature of virtue,  
             to live in a Mistress; for virtue is an humble Servant, when  
             as a Mistress is an imperious Tyrant; for Women are  
             insolent and imperious so long as they are made Mistresses,  
          
          
             which is to be flaterr'd, attended and served with Mens  
              estates   
          
          
             Scen. IV The Female Wits. 35  
          
          
             estates, bodies and souls; but when they come to be wives,  
             which is to be slaves, perchance, they may have so much  
             of Virtue, as to be somewhat humble, when as they are  
             forced to serve, and cannot command; but a wise Man  
             will never have a Mistress, although he should live un-  
             married, but he will keep a Maid servant for his use, and  
             so take and turn away so often as he pleases: But is thy  
             Mistress dead?  
             Harry. No, but she is Married.  
             Capt. Why then, she may be her Husband's servant,  
             and thy Mistress still?  
             Harry. But she is too Virtuous to be my Mistress now  
             she is another Man's Wife.  
             Capt. I prithee be not for wedded to the opinion of  
             Womens Virtues; for that will hinder thee from pur-  
             suing a Lover's design.  
             Harry. I will endeavour to forget this Mistress, and  
             get another.  
             Capt. Now you speak like a wise Man.  
             Enter Will to the Captain and Harry.  
             Will. Captain, and Harry, I was even now wishing for  
             either of you.  
             Harry. If you be as fortunate in all your wishes, as in  
             either of our being here, you will be the most fortunate  
             and happiest Man that ever was; but tell us whether it  
             it was your affection, appetite or reason, which was the  
             cause of your wish.  
             Will. Not any of them; for it was my wit that caus'd  
              that   
          
          
          
             36 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             that wish; for I have made a Copy of Verses, which I  
          
          
             would have you both read , and then give me your  
             opinion.  
             Capt. For my part, I had rather your appetite had  
             wished for our good fellowship; for I had rather drink a  
             health,then read a Copy of Verses; the truth is, I cannot  
          
          
             endure Verses.  
          
          
             Will. But if they were a Copy made in your Mistress  
          
          
             praise you would like them.  
             Capt. I should hate my Mistress, throw the hate to the  
             Verses, were she never so worthy, or the Verses so witty  
             Will. That makes thee love mean common Women.  
             Capt. They are fools that will wooe a nice Lady with  
             flattering Verses, when they may have a free Wench  
             with plain Prose ; and as the old saying, Jone in the dark is  
             as good as my Lady.  
             Harry. Nay faith, but they are not; for all common  
             Wenches are unwholsome Sluts.  
             Will. Well, leaving Jone and a Lady at this present, I  
          
          
             would have you read a drunken Song, which I made to  
             sing between every glass, for singing dries the Throat,and  
             drought requires drink, all which will make us drink with  
          
          
             more gust, and the wine will last the quicker.  
             Capt. Faith, I hate verse so much,as the Song will make  
             me vomit up my drink;besides singing brings down rhume,  
             and to have salt rhume mixt with sharp wine, will cause  
          
          
             such an unpleasing tast, which will make us more sick then  
          
          
             Crocus Mettallorum, and spoile the wine: wherefore burn  
          
          
              your   
          
          
             Scen. I V. The Female Wits. 37  
             your Song; beside, let me tell you, as your friend, that  
             'tis very dangerous for a Drunkard to be a Poet; for the  
          
          
             vapour of VVit,and the vapor of Wine,joined toge-  
             ther, will overpower your brain, and may make a man so  
          
          
             mad, as to be past recovery; but when the brain is only  
             muddl'd with the vapour of drink, sleeps cures it,and drink  
          
          
             causes sleep; whereas Poetry banishes sleep from the Sences,  
             and heats the brain into a Fever.  
          
          
             Will. But the hotter the brain is, the quicker the Wit  
             is, and Poets drink VVine to heighten their fancy.  
          
          
             Capt. Let me tell you, Poets drink Wine to please  
             their Pallats ; and it is an old Saying, That when Drink is  
             in, then Wit is out; wherefore burn thy Verses.  
          
          
             Harry. Do, Will, take his Counsel, and burn them.  
          
          
             Will. I will follow your advice,and burn them to light  
          
          
             a pipe of Tobacco.  
             Capt. That is worse then if you should read them, or  
          
          
             sing them; for you will fuck them back into your brain,  
          
          
             with the smoak, through your Pipe, an so have your  
          
          
             Verses to return smoking hot, which will either smother  
          
          
             your brain,or give your brain such an appetite, as you will  
          
          
             never leave versifying.But come let us go and consult how  
             they may be destroyed.  
             Will. Content.  
             Enter Peg.  
             Capt. Peg, have a care, and stay at home.  
              L   Enter   
          
          
          
             38 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Enter Mrs. Jane Fullwit, Mrs. Anne Sencible, to  
             Mrs. Peg Valorosa, who walked in a Melancholy  
             posture.  
             An. Always Melancholy?  
             Peg. Woken be merry, that is poor?  
             Jane. Who lives more merry then Beggars?  
             Peg. But our Birth and Breeding will not suffer us to  
             beg.  
             Jane. No, but we may live by our Wits.  
             Peg. But Wit was kill'd in the VVar.  
             An. You are mistaken, it was only banished with the  
             Cavaliers; but now it is returned home.  
             Peg. I cannot perceive it; for though I see many Fools,  
             yet not a true natural Wit amongst them; for there is the  
             Rhiming-folls, the Intrigue-fools, and the fine-languaged  
             fools.  
             Jane. The truth is, the multitude of Fools obscure  
             the Wits, like dark Clouds that obscure the Sun ; but let  
             us endeavour to shine through those Clouds.  
             Peg. That cannot be.  
             Jane. Let us try for our profit.  
             Peg. But Word-VVit will not make us rich.  
             Jan. I grant it, but Deed-VVit will do us good, where-  
             fore let us endeavour to get rich Husbands.  
             Peg. VVe may endeavour it, but not obtain it.  
             An. But if we would get them by our ingenuity, we  
             know not where they are to he had.  
             Jane. Madam Informer will give us Intelligence.  
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. I V. The Female Wits. 39  
          
          
             Enter Harry.  
             Harry. Is your Brother within the House?  
             Jane. I think he is, I will go and see.  
             Exeunt Women.  
             Enter Will Fullwit.  
             Harry. Well,I shall never trust any man more for your  
          
          
             sake, nor never believe in Friendship.  
          
          
             Will. Why?  
             Harry. Do you ask why, when you who I did believe  
             was so true a friend, would never forsake me at a time of  
          
          
             need, when not only my Life,but my Honour was enga-  
          
          
             ged in a quarrel, for which I chose you for my second,and  
             then to fail me at the appointed time, was base; for had  
             you been my Enemy, your Honour should have brought  
             you into the field.  
          
          
             Will. Faith,I was so engaged in a Company of Ladies,  
             I could not come.  
          
          
             Harry. Can there be a greater engagement then Friend-  
             ship,Honour and Honesty?  
          
          
             Will. Can there be a greater friendship then the love of  
             Women, or more honorable then to serve the Female  
             sex? and as for honesty, 'tis not worth any thing, besides,  
             it s a fool, it brings a Man to ruin, at least a Man can  
             never thrive by it.  
          
          
             Harry. O judgment, how hath it erred, to choose a  
             Knave for a Friend, a Coward for a Second!  
             Will. So I perceive, rather then you will want an Ene-  
             my, you will quarrel with your own judgment, you had  
             best fight a Duel with that  Harry   
          
          
          
             40 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Harry. Go, go, and kiss a Mistress, and leave talking  
          
          
             of Duels.  
          
          
             Will. I marry, this is friendly advice; for in Kisses  
             there is life and pleasure, in Duels death and danger; but  
             let me tell thee, Harry, I have done thee a more friendly  
             part, in not appearing, then ever I did thee in my life;for  
             I have saved thy life, at least thy estate, and have kept  
             thy Honour pure and free from stains, and I have increast  
             thy honour.  
          
          
             Harry. Which way ?  
          
          
             Will. Thus ; I have let thee go into thee Field for thy  
             Honour, and have kept thine Enemy out, not by force,  
             but by perswasion; which perswasion hath so wrought on  
             him and his Second, as they will both meet in the same  
             place you quarrel'd in, where shall be the same Company  
             that drank, and was drunk there, and before that Com-  
             pany he will confess his fault, and ask pardon, which is  
             as much satisfaction as an honest or honourable Man can  
             desire; and it would be against the Laws of good fellow-  
             ship to fight a sober Duel, for a drunken quarrel ; where-  
             fore agree, and be friends with our drunken Comrade.  
          
          
             Enter Captain Cornet,Lieutenant,and Dick Traveller.  
          
          
             Capt. VVe heard you very high in words, I hope you  
             two dear friends will not quarrel?  
          
          
             Will. VVe shall not quarrel like Enemies; but Harry  
             is angry, because I will not let him fight.  
             Capt. Fight, with whom will he fight?  
             Will. VVith Tom Ranter.  
              Lieut.   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The Female Wits. 41  
          
          
             Lieut. Hang him, he will get no honour with fighting  
          
          
             with him.  
          
          
             Capt. Come, come, I will conduct you to a better  
             pastime then fighting Vain Duels; for there are a Company  
          
          
             of Ladies which I am acquainted with, that have made a  
          
          
             merry meeting, only they want Men to keep them  
             Company.  
             Will. Let us go ; come Harry, will you go?  
          
          
             Harry. Yes, with all my heart.  
          
          
             Enter Peg.  
          
          
             Capt. I will but speak a word to my Sister.  
          
          
             Exit Captain He Whispers.  
             Peg stands as if she were Musing.  
          
          
             Enter Jane and Anne.  
          
          
             An. What are you thinking of now?  
          
          
             Peg. I was reasoning with my self, why those Women  
             that was neither factious, ambitious, covetous, malicious  
             nor cruel, should suffer in the Wars with the men.  
          
          
             Jane. The gods would not be just, if the Women  
             did not suffer for the Crimes of the Men, since all Men  
             suffer for a single crime of a particular Woman, witness our  
             Grandmother Eve.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Informer.  
          
          
             An. O Madam Informer, have you made an Inquiry?  
          
          
             Inform. Yes, marry have I, and find the Mass of  
          
          
             Wealth is in the possession of Usurers,Lawyers and Phy-  
          
          
             sicians.  
          
          
             Jane. I believe Usurers and Lawyers may be very  
          
          
              M   rich   
          
          
          
             42 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I I.  
             rich, for the Civil War hath made those sorts of Men  
          
          
             like as Vultures, after a Battel, that feed on the Dead, or  
          
          
             dying Corps; but I cannot perceive why Physicians  
             should be the richer for those times.  
          
          
             Inform. There is great reason why they should gain the  
             more; for both Men and Womens bodies are corrupted,  
          
          
             and weakned with Melancholy, Grief, Malice, Revenge,  
          
          
             Envy, Wrong,Injustice, and the like; so that their bodies  
             are full of the Scurvy, which their Misfortunes hath bred.  
          
          
             Peg. But have you found amongst those rich sorts of  
             Men, any Widowers, or Batchelors?  
          
          
             Inform. Yes, that I have, three Batchelors; the richest  
          
          
             amongst them, is one Mr. Get-all an Usurer; the other  
          
          
             Serjeant Plead-all a Lawyer ; the third Doctor Cure-all a  
             Physician.  
          
          
             Jane. Which is the richest?  
             Inform. The Usurer ; for he is worth Two hundred  
             thousand Pounds.  
             Peg. Well, we will imploy our VVits to get these  
             Men.  
          
          
             Inform. But VVit without Assistance,will do no good;  
             wherefore you must get your Brothers, and their Friends  
             to help you by their industry.  
          
          
             Jane. Your Counsel is good.  
          
          
             Exeunt, -------only Peg meets her Brother, Captain, as  
             coming in.  
          
          
             Peg. Brother, are you well, you look for Melancholy?  
             Capt. In body, but not in mind,Peg. Exit Peg.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The Female VVits. 43  
             Enter Will and Harry, the Captain, and the rest.  
          
          
             Harry. Captain, what makes thee so sad?  
             Capt. That which would make any Mad sad, want of  
             Money.  
          
          
             Will. We may be as sad as you for that; but to be  
          
          
             poor and Melancholy is a double misery.  
             Capt. Life cannot be merry when it hath not any thing  
             to live upon.  
             Enter Dick Traveller.  
             Capt. Dick, where have you been?  
             Dick. I have been peeping through a Key-hole into a  
             Room, where your three Sisters are in serious Councel  
          
          
             with Madam Informer.  
             Capt. Pray God she is not instructing of them to be  
          
          
             Wenches.  
             Will. Faith, I fear it; for she would make an ingenuous  
          
          
             Bawd.  
             Capt. I will go and part them.  
             Dick. Pray do not; for perchance the Womens  
          
          
             Wits may do you more service then your own; for I  
          
          
             heard them say,their Brothers must assist them; and surely  
          
          
             they do not believe you would be their Pimps.  
             Harry. No, for they know we shall rather be their  
             Murtherers then their Pimps.  
             Dick. Then let them alone; and whilst they are in a  
             Councel,let us go to the Tavern and drink.  
             Capt. But we have no Money.  
          
          
             Dick. I have a little credit to run on the Score.  
              Harry.   
          
          
          
             44 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Harry. Faith, if we go to the Tavern, the Girls will  
             come crying after us.  
             Dick. I tell you they are so busie about some Female-  
             design, as they will not miss us.  
             Exeunt All but the Cornet.  
             Cornet. I must stay to tell a lie, because they shall not  
             follow us.  
          
          
             Enter Peg, Jane, and Anne.  
             Cornet. Ladies, your Brothers bid me tell you, they  
             are gone about some serious business; but they will return  
             soon.  
          
          
             Peg. When they will. Exit Cornet  
             Enter Informer.  
          
          
             Peg. Mrs. Informer, how shall we three agree in the  
             choice of the three Rich Men?  
          
          
             Inform. You must draw Lots, and I have made them  
             ready.  
             Jane. I pray Jupiter, I may draw the Rich Man.  
             An. I pray Jupiter, I may draw him.  
             Peg. We must take our Lot, let it be what it will.  
             Jane draws first. They Draw.  
             Inform. Which have you drawn?  
             Jane. I have drawn Serjeant Plead-all.  
          
          
             Anne Sencible draws.  
             An. I have drawn Doctor Cure-all.  
             Peg. Jove, I thank thee in giving the Usurer to me.  
          
          
             Inform. Now go to your Brothers, and inform them  
          
          
             of your designs.  
              Jane.   
          
          
             Scen. V. The Female Wits. 45  
          
          
             Jane. Faith, they will rather laugh at us,then help us.  
             An. But yet we dare not do any such thing Without  
          
          
             their knowledge.  
          
          
             Peg. I am confident my Brother will assist me.  
          
          
             Jane. Come, let us go to them. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
          
          
             Enter Captain, Harry, Will, Dick, Lieutenant  
             and Cornet, as in the Tavern.  
          
          
             Will.  
          
          
              VV Ell, this Wine is so fresh and full of Spirit,as  
             it would make a Fool a Poet.  
             Harry. Or a Poet a Fool.  
          
          
             Dick. Then here's a Health to the most Fools in the  
             World.  
          
          
             Capt. Then you must drink a Health to the whole  
             World, that is one great Fool.  
          
          
             Lieut. Prithee Dick do not drink that Health, for it  
             will choak thee; for the World of Fools is too big for  
             one Draught.  
          
          
             Dick. Then here's a Health to the wisest Man.  
             Cornet. You may as well drink a Health to a drop  
             of water in the Ocean.  
          
          
             Capt. Faith Dick, that health is so little, it cannot be  
             tasted; besides, I do not love droppings.  
          
          
              N   Dick   
          
          
          
             46 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II  
          
          
             Dick. Then here's a Health to the Honest'st man in the  
             World.  
          
          
             Will. That Health is more difficult then the last? for  
             it is as rate to know an Honest man, as to see a Phoenix.  
          
          
             Dick. Then will drink a Health to the Chastest  
             Woman.  
          
          
             Lieut. You might as well drink a Health to the Queen  
             of the Faries, which is an old Wives-tale ; for Chastity  
             lives only in the Name not in Nature.  
          
          
             Dick. Then here's a Health to a Common Courtesan.  
          
          
             Harry. A Pox of that Health, I will not pledge it.  
             Will. Then here's a Health to the Muses.  
             Capt. It is a shame for a Soldier to drink a Health to  
             the Muses.  
             Lieut. The truth is, I hate a Poetical Soldier.  
             Harry. Is it not lawful for a Soldier (Captain) to  
             have Wit?  
             Capt. No; for Wit makes the minds of Men soft,  
             sweet, gentle, and effeminate; insomuch as those that  
             have VVit, are not fit for Soldiers; for Soldiers should  
             have resolute minds, cloudy thoughts, hard hearts, rough  
             speeches, and boisterous actions.  
             Cornet. The truth is (Captain) there is as much differ-  
             ence between a Poet and a Soldier (which is VVit and  
             Courage) as between a Calm and a Storm.  
             Capt. You say true, Cornet; for certainly the best  
             Soldiers are born and bred inthe uncivillest Nations.  
             Lieut. No doubt of it, Captain.  
          
          
             Scen. V The Female Wits. 47  
          
          
             Dick. Then here's a Health to the Graces.  
             Capt. That Health is three times worse then the former,  
          
          
             which was nine times too bad; for when did you know  
          
          
             a Soldier to have Grace?  
          
          
             Lieut. The truth is (Captain) it is unnatural for a  
             Soldier to have Grace.  
          
          
             Capt. You say true, Lieutenant.  
             Will. Setting aside,the Muses and the Graces, here is  
             a Health to the Furies.  
          
          
             Capt. I marry Sir, that Health founds like a Soldier's  
          
          
             Health, and I will pledge it were the Glass full of  
          
          
             Wounds. Here Harry, here's the Furies Health.  
             Harry. Faith, Captain, we shall be furiously drunk  
             with the Furies Health.  
             Cornet. It will give fire to your brain.  
             Harry. Yes, and burn out my Reason.  
             They Drink.  
             Capt. Now I will begin another Health ; Here Gen-  
             tlemen, here is Death's Health  
          
          
             Dick. Good Captain,do not drink Death's Health,for  
          
          
             it will make our Wine so cold it will never warm us; be-  
             fides, dead Wine will never make us drunk; and if we  
             had not a desire to be drunk, we should not have come  
             to now the Tavern.  
             Capt. Dick, you must drink Death's Health, for  
             Death's Health will make you dead drunk.  
          
          
             Dick. Then I Will drink it, and invite you and the  
             rest of the Society to my Funeral.  
          
          
              Capt.   
          
          
          
             48 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. II.  
          
          
             Capt. Then we will carry thee to thy bed eith Cere-  
          
          
             mony, as to thy Grave, sounding a dead March with  
          
          
             empty Pots,trayling our Tobacco-pipes instead of Pikes,  
          
          
             and spew out VVine instead of Tears.  
             Enter Peg, Jane, and Anne, as to the Tavern.  
             Harry. Did not tell you they would come.  
             Capt. What come you for now ?  
             Jane. Not to complain or chide, but to desire your  
             assistance to our Designs.  
          
          
             Will. Let your Tongues and Tayls assist you.  
          
          
             Peg. No, our VVits and Honesty shall assist us.  
          
          
             Capt. Pray Jove you have either.  
          
          
             Harry. VVell, let us hear your Defigns.  
          
          
             An. it is to get us Rich Husbands.  
          
          
             Capt. Sister Peg, tell me truly, is the Design so honest,  
             and honourable as only to get a Rich Husband.  
             Peg. There no deceit in the end, but only in the  
             way or means.  
             Capt. Come, let us go, for perchance our Sister's  
             honest. VVits may get us Honourable Means to  
             live With.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. VI. The Female VVits. 49  
          
          
             SCENE VI.  
             Enter Lady, and her SecondSuiter.  
             Suiter.  
              M Adam, was here some little while ago,to tender my  
             duty to you; but hearing you were not in a plea-  
             sing humour, I durst not venture to present my Suit,  
             for there is a nick of Time for Lovers to speed.  
             Lady. Sir, I perceive you're well learned in old  
             Observations.  
             Suit. As for Learning of all kinds and sorts, I defie it,  
             in so much that I cannot read the Horn-book; neither  
             am l able to remember the relation of any Discourse, if  
             there be words in it that consist but of two Sillables.  
             Lady. How will you make Love then?  
             Suit. Thus Madam, I love you with all my heart.  
             Lady. VVhat Jointure will you make me?  
             Suit. Love.  
             Lady. What maintenance will you give me?  
             Suit. Love.  
             Lady. Can Love feed, Cloth and maintain me?  
             Suit. Love is the true Elixir, and above all price, be-  
             ing above Gold ; it is a Creator,Madam.  
             Lady. if your Love be a Creator, then my Love shall  
             be your Creature. Exit Lady, Suitor Solus.  
             Suit. The Devil himself cannot work upon a Wo-  
             mans Nature.  
          
          
              O   Enter   
          
          
          
             50 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Enter the Lady, and third Suiter.  
          
          
             Suit. Madam, I hear you are Rich.  
          
          
             Lady. What then Sir ?  
          
          
             Suit. And I am poor.  
          
          
             Lady. What then?  
          
          
             Suit. Therefore I desire you would be please to  
             marry me.  
          
          
             Lady. For what ?  
             Suit. To mend my Fortune.  
          
          
             Lady. I am no Cobler, Sir. Exit Lady, Suiter Sol.  
             Suit. The Devil take Women's Tongues, for they  
          
          
             make Men Fools.  
          
          
             ACT III. SCENE I.  
             Enter Harry, and Doctor Cure-all.  
             Harry.  
              D Octor Cure-all, hearing of your fame,hath caused me  
             to send for you, to assist me with your help.  
          
          
             Doctor. What is your Disease?  
          
          
             Harry. That you must tell me; but my pain lies in  
             my bones.  
             Doctor. I understand your Disease; you must be put  
             to a diet, and you must sweat, and bathe, and someting  
             else,if need require it.  
          
          
             Harry. I hope I have not the Pox, Doctor?  
          
          
             Doctor. You may say it is a Cold, or do; but do you  
          
          
              not   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 51  
          
          
             not feel a tenderness in your Nose, or a weakness in your  
             Legs?  
             Harry. My Legs are somewhat weak.  
             Doctor. Do you spit much?  
             Harry. Sometimes, but not much.  
             Doctor. it were well if you did ; for that Evacuation  
             is good for young Men. Gives him a Fee.  
             Doctor. By no means Sir.  
             Harry. Pray Doctor take it.  
             Doctor. Well Sir, I shall prescribe some Remedies.  
             Harry. I shall come to your House, and Visit you  
             sometimes, Doctor.  
             Doctor. You shall be welcome Sir; if I am not mista-  
             ken, your Name is Mr. Sencible.  
             Harry. it is so Sir, your Servant Doctor.  
             Exit Doctor.  
             Enter Captain and Will to Harry.  
             Capt. Harry, it seems you are sick, for we met the  
             Doctor ; but what says he to thee.  
             Harry. He says, I have the Pox.  
             Will. A. Plague of him, but he hath the Money.  
             Harry. I lent him two Pieces upon Interest.  
             Capt. For the hopes of thy Cure: But Will Fullwit.  
             have you got your Sister into the Serjeant's service?  
             Will. Yes, and he likes her Service very well.  
             Capt. But Harry, how doth your Sisters design go on?  
             Harry. Faith slowly, for this is the first time I ever saw  
             the Doctor, but I hope it will come to a good issue in  
             time; but how fas is your Sister design gone ?  Capt.   
          
          
          
             52 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Capt. So far as I am almost ready to summon him to  
             a Spiritual Court, and yet I have neither spoke to, nor  
             seen the Usurer Get-all; but when a business is well laid,  
             it is half done.  
          
          
             Harry. But if it be to appear before the Spiritual  
             Court, it will be cast forth.  
             Capt. I will warrant you I shall get such a Judg, as  
             will end the cause on my side ; but both of you must  
             be assistants ; wherefore let us go to Dick Traveller, where  
             we shall meet my Lieutenant, and Cornet, whom I have  
             well instructed.  
          
          
             Enter Dick, Lieutenant and Cornet.  
          
          
             Capt. O, you have prevented us; are you ready for  
             the design?  
          
          
             Dick. Yes.  
          
          
             Capt. But do you understand the cause well?  
          
          
             Dick. So well as I shall not need any further Instructi-  
             on; but where's my Fee?  
          
          
             Capt. But stay, the Cause ia not ended; for though a  
             Bribe go before, a Fee comes after.  
          
          
             Lieut. If Judges and Lawyers should not be Fee'd be-  
             fore Causes were decided, they would not be so rich as  
             they are; but Doctors usually have their Fees after their  
             Prescriptions and Advice ; wherefore,Will Fullwit, that  
             must be ; Doctor Feel-pulse must not be fee'd before hand.  
             Capt. I only fear Will is not learned enough to play  
             the part of a Doctor of Physick.  
             Will. Never fear me, for I shall out-argue the  
             Colledge.  Dick   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 53  
          
          
             Dick. Harry, and your Lieutenant, and Cornet must  
             act as under Officers and Clerks.  
             Cornet. Let Harry act the part old Clerk, and leave us  
             to be under officers.  
             Capt. No,no, Harry must be a Pleader; but I never  
             thought Soldiers should turn Judges, and Lawyers before  
             now.  
             Dick. Why not as well as Priests turn Soldlers.  
             Capt.. Come, let us go about this great affair.  
             Enter Peg.  
             Capt. Peg, have you got your Child ready?  
             Peg. Yes.  
             WiIl. Have you Confidence to outface the Court?  
             Peg. I can face the Court; but I fear I cannot outface  
             or out-scale the Usurer Get-all.  
             Capt. Never fear it, Peg.  
             Peg. Pray Jove we speed, for the good of the Com-  
             mon-wealth of Cavaliers.  
             Capt. Well Peg, be ready against I send for you.  
             Exeunt Men.  
             Enter Anne, and Informer, to Peg.  
             Anne. How is your Design like to prove ?  
             Peg. Well I hope ; but Mrs. Informer, have you seen  
             Jane Fullwit since she went to be a Lawyer's Clerk ?  
             Inform. I have, and she told me, that her Master is  
             much pleased with her service ; but I going often to visit  
             his Clerk, the Serjeant having notice of it watched  
             when I was with him, and was very angry, and said I  
              P   was   
          
          
          
             54 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             was such a Bawd as corrupted all the Apprentices, and  
             Lawyer's Clerks in the City. But I fear for all your in-  
          
          
             dustry, your Designs will not come to that effect you  
          
          
             desire.  
          
          
             Peg. Why, what hinders them?  
          
          
             Inform. Why, those three rich men, that I informed  
             you of , do eagerly wooe the old Lady Riches.  
          
          
             Jane. Are the men young, or old?  
          
          
             Inform. Neither ; they are of a middle age.  
          
          
             An. Then she will never marry any of them; for old  
             Women love young Men ; besides, she can marry but  
             one.  
          
          
             Peg. Come, come, it is impossible, but we shall be pre-  
             ferred before the old Lady.  
          
          
             Inform. I wish you may.  
          
          
             Peg. I will warrant you, we shall have good success if  
          
          
             you act your part well.  
             Inform. Never fear me, for I shall out-act you all.  
             Peg. Come, let us go to the Child, to put a dry Cloath  
             to it, and to wrap it warm with a Mantle, for fear it  
             catch cold; for if it get Cold, my Brother will he angry.  
             Exit Women.  
             Get-all the Usurer sitting casting up Accounts,  
             Enter his Man Roger.  
             Roger. Will your Worship give me leave to speak  
             freely to you?  
             Gat-all. Yes, Roger, freely.  
             Roger. I wonder your Worship will starve your  
             life, to fill your Purse.  Get-all.   
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 55  
             Get-all. O Roger, when the Purse is full, the life can-  
          
          
             not starve for want.  
          
          
             Roger. 'Tis true, he that is Rich may eat if he have  
          
          
             a Stomack; but you will neither eat nor sleep, but wear  
          
          
             out your life in casting up the Accounts of your Riches,  
             and yet have not an Heir to leave it to.  
          
          
             Get-all. Wealth never wants Heirs.  
          
          
             Roger. Indeed such Heirs, that will give no thanks  
             for what they do receive?  
          
          
             Get-all. But I can make the Meritorious my Heirs.  
          
          
             Roger. You may make Heirs, but not Merit, Sir.  
          
          
             Get-all. Do you think there are not Men of Merit?  
          
          
             Roger. Faith Sir, Merit died many years since, and  
             left no Posterity.  
          
          
             Enter Tom his other Man.  
          
          
             Servant. Sir, there is one Captain Valour desires to speak  
             with your Worship.  
             Get-all. These poor Cavaliers haunt me like Spirits,  
             they will not let me rest in peace.  
          
          
             Roger. Faith Sir, they are like Hounds, that hunt an  
             after-Game.  
          
          
             Get-all. But they shall not catch my Wealth; for they  
          
          
             have no Lands to Mortgage, nor Goods to Pawn.  
             Roger. I believe they have not any thing to pawn or  
             Mortgage, unless it be their Honesties.  
             Get-all. But poor Honesty will pay no Debts;  
             wherefore tell the Captain, I am not to bespoken with.  
             Exit Servant.  
              Roger.   
          
          
          
             56 The Sociable Companions, Or, Act. III  
          
          
             Roger. But your Worship said, you would leave  
             your Wealth to Men of Merit.  
          
          
             Get-all. Yes, Roger, I may leave them my Wealth  
             when I die ; but not give it them whilst I live.  
          
          
             Roger. But if the Cavaliers be Men of Merit, they  
             may be starved before you are like to die; for you are  
             not fifty years of age,and healthful and temperate, where-  
             as they are weak with want and disorders.  
          
          
             Get-all. Want and disorders seldom go together ;  
             wherefore we'l endeavour to get the old Lady Riches.  
          
          
             Roger. What, to be disorderly?  
          
          
             Get-all. No,to be Rich.  
             Roger. But Would you Marry this old Lady Riches  
             in earnest?  
          
          
             Get-all. Yes; but I would not see her before I am  
             Married, for fear I should dislike her ; and that would  
             disquiet my mind between two Passions, Dislike and  
             Covetousness.  
          
          
             Roger. But you have Mass of Wealth already, so  
             in my judgment you should desire no more.  
             Get-all. You are a Fool; for I would be as Rich as  
             the Indies, and then I should be more then half as Rich  
             as the King of Spain.  
             Roger. But what would you do with it,if you had it?  
             Get-all. I would fight with the Great Turk.  
             Roger. But you said, That you would give your  
             Wealth to Men or Merit.  
             Get-all. Why so I shall,if I give it to Valiant Soldiers  
             to fight against the Turk.  Roger.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 57  
          
          
             Roger. But would your Worship head your own  
          
          
             Army?  
             Get-all. Yes.  
          
          
             Roger. Truly that would be a kind of aMiracle; for  
          
          
             I never heard of an Usurer that was Valiant.  
             Enter the Servant again.  
             Serv. Sir, Captain Valour is without still, he will not  
          
          
             go away.  
          
          
             Get-all. I cannot speak with him.  
          
          
             Serv. He bids me tell you , That he doth not come  
             to borrow Money, for he knows you will lend him none;  
             but he says, He came to inform you of a business that  
             highly concerns you.  
          
          
             Get-all. Well, bring him in; but be sure Roger and  
             Tom, that both of you be in the next room, for I do not  
             love to be with a Soldier alone.  
          
          
             Roger. But you dare trust your self at the head of an  
             Army.  
          
          
             Get-all. Yes, yes, but that is against the Turk; but  
             hold your prating and send in the Captain.  
          
          
             Exit Roger.  
             Enter Captain.  
          
          
             Capt. Mr. Get-all,I am come to inform you,that there  
             is a young Gentlewoman brought to bed.  
          
          
             Get-all. What is that to me.  
             Capt. It is to you,if it be true what they say, which  
             is that you got it.  
          
          
             Get-all. If she can prove I got it, I will not only keep  
          
          
              Q   the   
          
          
          
             58 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
             the Child, but marry the Woman ; but I did believe I  
          
          
             was always insufficient.  
             Capt. You speak as an honest Gentleman, and I shall  
             tell her what you say. Exit Captain.  
             Enter Roger.  
          
          
             Get-all. Roger, I am provided of an Heir, for I have  
             a Child said to my Charge.  
          
          
             Roger. Of the Captain's begetting.  
          
          
             Get-all. believe so; but the Wench lays it to my  
          
          
             charge.  
          
          
             Roger.: Faith Sir, I never saw any thing like a Woman,  
             near your Worship, since I came to be yourServant,  
             which is above Twenty years; as for your old Cook-  
             maid, she is nothing like a Woman.  
          
          
             Get-all. Why, what is she like then ?  
          
          
             Roger. Like a Spirit, whose substance is wasted in  
             Hell-fire.  
          
          
             Cet-all. Well Roger, but I must be careful to avoid  
             this Wenches plot against me, and there is no way,that I  
             can perceive, to avoid it, but to marry as speedily as I can;  
             whereforecarry. the old Lady Riches that Present, and let  
             her into my Chamber, and if it be possible speak to her self  
             and wooe her for me.  
          
          
             Roger. Faith Sir, I am as bad a wooer as your self; for  
             I never wooed any Woman but your Cook-maid for a  
             Breakfast, or to make me a Bag-pudding; and how such  
             kind of Wooing will fit a Lady, l cannot tell.  
          
          
             Get-all. But you can tell her, how Rich I am.  
              Roger.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 59  
          
          
             Roger. That I can, and in my Conscience that is as  
             good a wooing-Plea as any is.  
          
          
             Get-all. And you may tell her that one of my age is  
             fitter to match with one of her age, then a younger man.  
          
          
             Roger. Those two Arguments will spoile all,especially  
             that of mentioning her age , for Women cannot  
             endure to hear of their age , were they as old as  
             Methuselab.  
             Get-all. Well, use what Arguments you shall think  
          
          
             fit.  
             Roger. Shall I Wooe as the young Gallants,in Court  
          
          
             Language?  
          
          
             Get-all. What Language is that?  
             Roger. Fine Phrases, and Mode-expressions, which is  
             a mixture with French words; and high Complements.  
             Get-all. How high?  
             Roger. As high as Non-sence, which is beyond  
             Understanding.  
             Get-all. Prithee use what Language or Expressiions  
             you will.  
             Roger. But put the case I should wooe so courtly, as  
          
          
             to get her for my self?  
          
          
             Get-all. If you do Roger, I shall wish you joy.  
             Roger. l thank you Sir. Exit Roger.  
             Enter Tom his other Man.  
             Tom. Sir, there is a young Gentlewoman come in a  
             Coach, who desïres to speak with your Worship.  
             Get-all. I'li pawn my life it is she, that desires to say  
          
          
             her Bastard to my Charge.  Tom.   
          
          
          
             60 The Sociable Companions, Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Tom. Certainly, she is none of the trade, for she is  
             come in a Coach.  
             Get-all. Why a Hackney Woman may ride in a  
             Hackney-Coach; there is no Law against it, Tom.  
          
          
             Tom. But in my conscience this Gentlewoman looks  
             as modestly, as if she were honest.  
             Get-all. But a modest Countenance is oftentimes  
             made use of only to cover the face of Adultery.  
          
          
             Tom. Then you will not speak with her ?  
          
          
             Get-all. No, for there is Antipathy between me and  
          
          
             VVomen-kind, since this Accusation.  
          
          
             Tom was going out, and returns back.  
          
          
             Tom. Sir, here is the Captain.  
             Enter Captain.  
          
          
             Get-all. VVhat would you have now?  
          
          
             Capt. I am come to summon you to the Spiritual  
             Court.  
          
          
             Get-all. I shall obey ; but how shall I find the Court,  
          
          
             for I was never there?  
          
          
             Capt. I will go but to the next house to speak with a  
          
          
             friend, and I will come and direct you to the place.  
             Get-all. I pray do. Exit Captain.  
             Get-all. I am glad you are not gone to the Lady, for  
             I am summoned to the Spiritual Court.  
             Roger. The Captain's coming made me stay; but  
             what are you summoned for, a bag of Money?  
             Get-all. Indeed that is the design, but the presence is,  
               for    
          
          
             Scen. I The Female Wits. 61  
          
          
             for getting the Child, I told you was laid to my Charge.  
             Roger. Why, this is the misery of Wealth, a man can  
             never be quiet ; and you being very rich, it will be the  
             policy of the Spiritual Court, to make you maintain all  
             the Whores, and their Bastards,in the City.  
             Get-all. Like enough.  
             Roger. And if there be an overplus, you may leave  
             that to the Meritorious; so then you will maintain Vice  
             in your life; and Virtue when you are dead.  
             Get-all. But surely my Innocency will defend me from  
             the injury of Injustice.  
             Roger. Faith, Injustice is too prevalent for Innocency,  
             in these days.  
             Get-all. Well, let us go, for I must obey the Laws.  
             Roger. But Sir, you are not provided of Lawyers to  
             Plead on your side.  
             Get-all. I shall not need them, for I can declare my  
             own Innocency. Exeunt Get-all and Servant.  
             Enter as in a Court of Justice; Dick, as prime Judge of  
             the Spiritual Court, the Lieutenant and Cornet as two  
             Clerks, Harry Sencible as a Lawyer, or Pleader, for  
             the Plaintiff; Will Fullwit as a Physician; Mrs. Peg  
             Valorosa the Plaintiff ; Informer, as a Midwife and  
             Witness; and Captain Valorous as their Friend; when  
             all sit in Order.  
             Enter Get-all and Roger.  
             Harry. Most Reverend Judge, here is a Gentlewoman  
             come, who desires Justice.  
          
          
              R  Dick.   
          
          
          
             62 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Dick. What is her Cause?  
          
          
             Harry. Her Cause is, That she being a virtuous young  
             Woman, hath behaved her leif modestly, and hath  
             kept a good Reputation in the World (which all her  
             Neighbours know) until such time as this Mr. Get-all got  
          
          
             her with Child, which Child he will neither own nor  
          
          
             keep, nor marry the VVoman.  
             Dick. Have you any VVitnesses?  
             Harry. VVe have such a VVitness as the Law allows  
             of, which is a Midwife.  
             Get-all. I require the VVitness to be heard.  
             Dick: Vvill you witness that the Child is Mr.Get-all's.  
          
          
             Inform. I will witness the words of the Labouring  
             VVoman.  
          
          
             Dick. Declare them.  
          
          
             Inform. About Twelve a Clock at Night I being in  
             bed, and fast asleep, there comes a Man, and raps, and  
             raps, and -----raps at the Door, as if it had been for life,  
             which in truth proved so ; for it was to fetch me to  
             bring a sweet Babe into the VVorld; but I hearing one  
             rap so hard, I was afraid, my Door, being but a rotten  
             Door, should be broke to pieces; I ran to the VVindow  
             to ask, who knockt so hard;but the man knockt on, and I  
          
          
             call'd out; which knocking an calling took up half an  
          
          
             hours time; but at last, my Tongue being louder then the  
          
          
             Clapper,he heard me then ; I asked him what was his bu-  
             siness ? he said, I must go presently to a young Gentle-  
             woman that was in Labour ; upon which summons I  
          
          
              did   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits 63  
          
          
             did rise and put on my Bodise,but did not half lace them;  
          
          
             also when Petticoats, but did not tie them fast enough ; for  
             when I came into one the middle of the broad Street, my  
             Coats fell quite down from my hips, but as good luck  
             would have it, it was a dark Night, but the ill fortune  
             was, that my Coats fell down , when I was striding  
             over the broad Kennel, in which posture I stood a  
             great time, until the man helpt me over; but my Coats  
          
          
             were all wet.  
          
          
             Get-all. But what is all this to the Confession of the  
             Labouring Woman?  
          
          
             She answers angerly.  
             Inform. It is of concern; for Circumstance is partly a  
             declaring of truth.  
             Dick. You say true Mistress, wherefore go on.  
             Inform. But as I said----stay,I have forgot ; where did I  
             leave?  
             Capt. You left at the wet Coats, Mistress.  
             Inform. 'Tis very true, I humbly thank you Sir; The  
             Coats, as I said, being wet,I was loth to put them on, not  
             only for fear of catching cold, but for fear l should en-  
          
          
             danger the Womans miscarriage by my retardements; so I  
          
          
             went with never a Coat on me, the Man carried them for  
             me; but the night was pretty warm, so that I got no Cold,  
             I thank Jupiter ; but being more nimble, as being more  
             light, I was soon at the houle of the Labouring Woman,  
             whom l found in painful throws, and she groaned most  
             pitifully ; and I comforted her, and prayed her to have  
              patience,   
          
          
          
             64 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             patience,and at last she was brought to bed a very lusty  
          
          
             Boy.  
             Get-all. But what did the Gentlewoman confess?  
             Inform. What Gentlewoman?  
             Get.all. This Gentlewoman.  
          
          
             Inform. This Gentlewoman hath confest that she was  
          
          
             never got with Child, nor never had a Child, but what  
             Mr. Get-all begot; and this I will take my Oath of.  
             Dick. How can you clear your self Mr. Get-all?  
             Get-all. I will take my Oath that I never did see this  
          
          
             Gentlewoman,about whom I am accused,in my life ; and I  
          
          
             have a Servant here that can witness for me.  
          
          
             Roger comes forward.  
          
          
             Dick. What can you witness?  
             Roger. I can witness that I have lived with my Master  
          
          
             Master converse with any thing like a Woman.  
             Dick. Doth your Master keep no Sewant-Maid?  
             Roger. There is one we call the Cook-maid, but whe-  
          
          
             there she be Maid or Woman, I'le take my Oath I know  
          
          
             not.  
          
          
             Dick. Then your Master may converse with Women  
          
          
             you know not of.  
          
          
             Roger. But I will swear my Master did never converse  
          
          
             With this Gentlewoman that hath the Child.  
          
          
             Get-all. And I will take my Oath, as I said, that  
             never did so much as see her before now.  
          
          
             never got With .Child,- nor never had a Child, but What.-  
          
          
             these.Tvventy years-' in all which time I did never-lee my  
          
          
             Capt. But may if please you, most Reverend Judge,  
          
          
             this Gentlewoman hath seen him.  Get-all.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 65  
          
          
             Get-all. But the bare fight of me Could not get her  
             with Child.  
          
          
             Capt. That is to be proved; wherefore we require so  
             much justice of this Reverend Judge, that Mr. Feel-pulse,  
             a most learned and expert Doctor of Physick, may prove  
             it by Argumentation.  
          
          
             Dick. Let Mr. Doctor prove it.  
          
          
             Will steps forward.  
          
          
             Will. Then be it known to this most Reverend Judge,  
             and to Mr. Get-all, and the rest of this Assembly, That  
             our Famous Doctor is of opinion, (as also the heads  
             of our Schools and Colledges) That the production of  
             Animal kind, is by an Incorporeal motion; and the fa-  
             mous Doctor is also of opinion, That the Soul of Man  
             slides from the Stomack to the heel, and in that journey  
          
          
             makes a production : And all the Platonicks do affirm,  
          
          
             That there may be a Conjunction of Souls,although the  
             Bodies be at a far distance; and I am absolutely of that  
             opinion; and that the Idea of a Man, by the help of a  
             strong imagination,may beget a Child;which is sufficiently  
             proved; for she seeing Mr. Get-all enter into the house of  
             Mr. Inkhorn the Scrivener, viewed his person to exactly,  
             that when she was in bed, a strong imagination seized on  
             her, by which she conceived a Child.  
             Get-all. It seems the Child was begot like the Plague,  
             by conceit.  
             Dick. You say true, Mr. Get-all; wherefore you must  
             marry the Woman, own the Child, and keep them both.  
              S  Get-all.   
          
          
          
             66 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Get-all. Is there no avoiding your Sentence, Mr.  
          
          
             Judge?  
             Judge. No, the Decree is past.  
          
          
             Get-all. Why then as she was got with Child by  
          
          
             Conceit, so I will marry her Conceit.  
             Judge. But you must take her, and her Child home,  
          
          
             and maintain them.  
             Get-all. Cannot I maintain them by Conceit?  
             Judge. No, that must be done Corporally.  
             Get-all. If there be no remedy, I must be content; come  
          
          
             my Conceited or Platonick Wife and Child, let us go  
          
          
             home.  
          
          
             All. We Wish you all Happiness. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E II;  
             Enter the Lady and a Fourth Suiter.  
          
          
             Suiter.  
          
          
              M Adam, I suposse my Name unknown to you ?  
             Lady. Tis probable Sir ; for I never saw you  
          
          
             before.  
          
          
             Suit. Then I'le tell you, Madam, my Name is, Mon-  
             sieur Vanity.  
          
          
             Lady. Your Name shews that your Humour is Foo-  
             lish, and your actions Prodigal.  
             Suit. My Humour is noble, Madam, and my Acti-  
             ons generous; for I usuallycast away a hundred pounds  
          
          
              at   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Female Wits. 67  
          
          
             at Dice, and run away a hundred pounds at a Race, and  
          
          
             give away a hundred pounds at a Visit to a Mistress.  
             Lady. This last kind of Prodigality has some resem-  
          
          
             blance to Generosity; but yet it is as different from Gene-  
          
          
             rosity, as a Bribe is from an Uninterested Gift, But pray  
          
          
             Sir, give me leave to ask you, what design brought you  
             hither to me?  
          
          
             Suit. Very good design, Madam; for I being vain,  
             and you rich, 'twould be very convenient we two should  
             joyn as Man and Wife, that one might maintain the  
          
          
             other.  
          
          
             Lady. Alas Sir, the Wife would soon die in her Hus-  
             bands arms; for Riches consume in Vanity ; therefore, I  
             will as soon marry death, as you. Exit Lady.  
          
          
             Suit. Sol. Death take her, if cannot get her.  
          
          
             Enter Three Gentlewomen to the Lady.  
          
          
             Lady. I am glad you are come to release me from the  
             importunity of my Suiters.  
          
          
             I Gent. You are in a good Condition, Madam, that  
             you can have Lovers that leek you, when as we for want  
             of Wealth, are forced to seek them.  
          
          
             2 Gent. You mean Husbands, Madam, for Lovers  
             are never sought, because they are never lost; for a Lover  
             will always be at the tail of his Mistress.  
          
          
             3 Gent. I wish I had as many as would make up a  
             Train. Exit Suiter.  
          
          
             Enter her Father Save-all;  
             Fath. Daughter, have you made your choice of a  
             Husband, since you have so many Suiters?  Daugh.   
          
          
          
             68 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. III.  
          
          
             Daugh. No truly Sir, for the number confounds my  
             choice, or rather there is no choice in all the number, by  
             reason none exceeds the other, but they are all Fools  
             alike.  
          
          
             Fath. Indeed Daughter, if you be so long a chusing,  
             you will be past choice your self.  
          
          
             Daugh. I had rather be old with Judgment,then young  
             with Folly; and since you have been pleased to trust to  
          
          
             my discretion, I would not willingly betray that trust,by  
          
          
             the hast of my choice.  
             Fath. You speak well, Daughter; Heaven grant you  
             do well.  
          
          
             Daugh. But pray Sir give me leave to ask you one  
             question.  
          
          
             Fath. What's that ?  
          
          
             Daugh. I would fain know, whether my Lovers do first  
             address their Suits to you, or to me ?  
          
          
             Fath. Their Suites they address first to you; but their  
             inquiries are made first tome ; to wit, what Portion I  
             would give you, and whether I intend to settle all my  
             Estate upon you.  
          
          
             Daugh. It seems they confider my Wealth before  
             my Person.  
          
          
             Fath. Yes, and all Wooers do the like.  
          
          
             Daugh. But not Lovers Sir.  
          
          
             Fath. Yes, yes, for they wooe first, marry next, and  
             love last.  
          
          
             Exit Father.  
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Female Wits. 69  
          
          
             S C E N E III.  
             Enter the Fifth Suiter to the Lady, being an ancient  
             Man.  
             Suiter.  
              M Adam, I see you are a Beauty, and Report speaks  
             you Virtuous and Wise; which if so, I hope  
             you'l chuse an ancient Lover before a young one.  
             Lady. No question Sir, but and ancient Lover expres-  
             ses more Constancy in his Love, then a young one doth ;  
             but ancient Love requires a great deal of time, and my  
             Father may die before I make my Choice.  
             Suit. You mistake me, Madam, I mean an ancient  
             Man that loves you.  
             Lady. There is great difference between an ancient  
             Man, and an ancient Lover : But Sir, by your Dis-  
             course I perceive you pretend to be a Lover.  
             Suit. My Love is not pretended; for I do really  
          
          
             love you.  
             Lady. How can I know that ?  
          
          
             Suit. By proof; for I'le not require any Portion  
          
          
             with you, since I am Rich enough without; Nay, I  
             will not only take you without a Portion, but make  
             you Mistress of all my Wealth, in so much that I will  
             freely give you all I am Worth; and I wish I were  
             worth Millions for your sake.  
          
          
             Lady. Sir, you express more Love in your Gifts,  
              T   then   
          
          
          
             70 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. IV.  
          
          
             then all my young Suiters in their Words; and if you  
             will confirm your Promised to my Father , which you  
             have now made to me, I shall accept of you for a Hus-  
             band, and promise you, to be an honest and Loving  
             Wife. He Kisses her Hand.  
          
          
             Suit. Let us both go to your Father, and conclude  
          
          
             the bargain.  
          
          
             A C T IV. SCENE I.  
             Enter Lawyer and his She-Clerk.  
             Serjeant.  
              I S Doctor Cure-all so industrious about the old Lady  
             Riches?  
          
          
             Jaek. Yes Sir, he was very busie in preparing of Cor-  
             dials, Ointments, and such things ; and was angry that  
             I came with a Message from you ; for he bid me be  
             gone ; for the Lady, he said, could not hear Love-  
             Messages, she was so full of Sciatical pain and Gout ;  
             but the old Lady did favour me, and chid the Doctor  
          
          
             for bidding me to be gone; for she would have heard my  
          
          
             Message, when her side were anointed, and her Gouty  
             Toe Plaistered.  
          
          
             Serj. And did you stand by, till she was anointed?  
          
          
             Jack. Yes Sir, for she did desire me to help to anoint  
             her sides , whilst the Doctor laid a Plaister to her  
             toe.  
          
          
              Serj.   
          
          
             Scen I. The Female Wits. 71  
          
          
             Serj. And how did she like your service ?  
          
          
             Jack. So Well,Sir, as she said, she was never better  
             chast and rubbed in her life ; I suppose it was for your  
             sake.  
          
          
             Serj. But when I am married, I shall not allow her  
             my Clerk to anoint her sides , although she be so old  
             to go upon Crutches. Exit Jack Clerk.  
          
          
             Enter another Clerk.  
          
          
             Clerk. Sir, there is a Client without, desires to speak  
             with you ; and there is a Gentleman without, that doth  
             raile bitterly.  
          
          
             Serj. For what?  
          
          
             Clerk. Because his Law-Suit went against him ; he  
             says, That all the poor Cavaliers are not only undone  
             by the Wars, but also by the Lawyers.  
          
          
             Serj. These poor Cavaliers are very troublesome.  
          
          
             Man.. Alass, their Losses make them impatient.  
          
          
             Serj. They are so poor, that Lawyers cannot gain  
             by them; wherefore, we are for the other Party, who  
             are so rich, that 'tis fit their Purses should be emptied.  
          
          
             Man. But if they get their Suites, Sir, the poor  
             Cavaliers pay the Charges.  
          
          
             Serj. Hold your prating, and bid Jack Clerk come  
          
          
             to me.  
             Enter Jack Clerk.  
          
          
             Serj. Have you writ those Deeds out?  
          
          
             Jack. Yes Sir.  
          
          
             Serj. And have you Copied out those Cases that I  
          
          
             am to plead for, and against?  Jack.   
          
          
          
             72 The Sociable Companions ; Or, Act. IV.  
          
          
             Jack. Yes Sir.  
          
          
             Serj. 'Tis well done.  
             Jack. Sir, you are please to seem to favour me.  
             Serj. I do really love thee, and will do thee any  
          
          
             favour I can.  
          
          
             Jack. Then I desire you would be pleased to Plead  
          
          
             a Cause that concerns a Kinswoman of mine.  
          
          
             Serj. That I will to the best of my power; but what  
          
          
             is the Case ?  
             Jack. Why Sir, I have a Kinswoman who is well  
             born, but poor, and a Gentlewoman ; but a Gentleman  
             being in Love with her, and she not condescending to  
             his unlawful desire, hath taken here away by force, and  
             keeps her by force.  
             Serj. Have you Witness?  
             Jack. Yes Sir, I have two Witnesses.  
             Serb. That is sufficient; let them be ready at the next  
             Sessions.  
             Jack. Bur Sir, I desire not to appear as Plaintiff, for  
             I have got another Gentleman to be Plaintiff; and my  
             Friends are without, Sir, if you please to see them.  
             Serj. Well, call them.  
             Enter the Lieutenant and Cornet.  
             Serj. Gentlemen, I shall serve you as well as I can.  
             Lieut. & Cor. We thank you Sir.  
             Exit Serjeant.  
             Enter Dick, Will, Harry and Captain.  
             Jack. Gentlemen, you are welcome.  
          
          
              Jack.   
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 73  
          
          
             Will. We are come to know if we shall have a Hearing ?  
          
          
             Jack. My Master hath promised to Plead on our  
             behalf.  
             Harry. We desire no more.  
             Jack. But I am to inform this Society, That there is  
             a very rich old Lady, (a Widow) who these three  
             Rich Men court ; The Usurer did Wooe her,  
             and the Lawyer and Physician do Wooe her; now if  
             any one of you could cozen these Three of the Lady,  
             it would be a Master-piece.  
          
          
             Harry. But should not any one of us cozen our  
             selves, or she cozen us to marry her? for she is so old,  
             that there is no hopes of Posterity.  
          
          
             Dick. Why shall we desire Posterity, so long as we  
             are poor ? and if any orle of us should ever come to be so  
             happy as to be Rich, if he hath no Children, and chance  
             to die, let him leave his Wealth amongst the Society  
             of poor Cavaliers.  
             All speak. Content, content.  
             Lieut. But which of us shall address himself to this  
             old Lady ?  
          
          
             Harry. Dick Traveller is most likely to speed.  
          
          
             Dick. I have white Hairs ; wherefore I am confident  
             I shall be refused.  
          
          
             Capt. The truth is, the only Man that is probable to  
             speeds is Harry Sencible; for he hath a young smooth  
             face, and old Women love young smooth fac'd Men  
          
          
             alife.  
          
          
              V   Harry.   
          
          
          
             74 The Sociable Companions, Or, Act. IV.  
          
          
             Harry. Yes, but a young Man doth not love an  
             old Woman; wherefore she is a fitter match for Dick  
             then for me.  
          
          
             Will. Harry is in the right, Dick is the fittest Match  
             for her ; but the difficulty will be, how to make the  
             Match, for we shall find it more difficult for all us  
             Men to cozen one Woman, then for one Woman to  
             cozen all us Men.  
          
          
             Lieut. It is impossible ; wherefore let us never en-  
             deavour it.  
             Cornet. But we will never lose any design for want  
             of endeavour.  
             Jack. I will tell you my Masters,how to compass this  
             design.  
             Dick. How ?  
             Jack. Harry shall put himself into a Woman's Habit,  
             and Madam Informer who is acquainted with the Lady,  
             shall prefer Harry to be her Chamber-Maid, where he  
             may have time and opportunity to commend Dick,  
             and to bring him acquainted with her.  
             Well. He may do some good in that, and perchance  
             not.  
             Jack. It is but trying.  
          
          
             Harry. I like the design so well, as I am resolved to  
             become a Chamber-Maid.  
          
          
             Will. But we shall want thy Company in the mean  
          
          
             time.  
             Harry. No, no, I am confident I shall get leave some-  
              times   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female VVits. 75  
          
          
             times to go abroad , or find some ways other to flip  
             out.  
          
          
             Lieut. But you cannot change your Habit suddenly.  
          
          
             Harry. I shall not have occasion, for you all know  
             me.  
          
          
             Dick. Corne, come, let us about this business.  
          
          
             Jack. But first you must go with me to hear the  
             Cause try'd.  
          
          
             All speak. Content, content. Exeunt.  
             Enter Roger, Solus.  
          
          
             Roger. If my young Mistress should have a perfect  
             Idea of me, and then a strong Imagination, she might  
             prove with Child again , and to my Master would be a  
             Platonick Cuckold.  
          
          
             Enter Get-all.  
          
          
             Get-all. Roger, where is my Platonick Wife and  
             Child ?  
             Roger. In the Chamber with the Milch-Nurse.  
          
          
             Get-all. My Family is well increased since I have  
             been a Platonick Husband and Father.  
          
          
             Roger. I hope your Worship will not want Heirs  
             to inherit your Wealth?  
          
          
             Get-all. No, no, I cannot want Heirs, the way being  
             so easie to get them.  
          
          
             Roger. But hath not your Worship a mind to get  
             her With Child, after a Corporeal manner?  
             Get-all. Faith Roger, she is tempting, being young  
             and handsome; but if l should get her with Child as our  
          
          
              fore-   
          
          
          
             76 The Sociable Companions ; Or, Act. IV.  
          
          
             fore-fathers got us, I fear this Learned age will punish  
             me, either with death or intolerable Fines.  
          
          
             Roger. But if there be no VVitness, they cannot  
             prove it ; for this Platonick Son and Heir of your  
             Worships, appears as if it had been got by a Corporeal  
             action.  
             Get-all. You say true ; wherefore call your Mistress.  
          
          
             The while he Walks, Enter Mistress Peg.  
          
          
             Get-all. My Imaginary VVife, how doth our Ima-  
             ginary Son ?  
          
          
             Peg. Very well, Sir.  
          
          
             Get-all. But doth he Corporeally suck?  
          
          
             Peg. Yes Sir.  
          
          
             Get-all. I wonder at that ; but my greatest wonder  
             is, how that an Incorporeal Conception, should come  
             to be a Corporeal Child!  
          
          
             Peg. 'Tis like Spirits that take Bodies, Sir.  
          
          
             Get-all. But may I not lawfully get you with Child  
             after a Corporeal manner ?  
          
          
             Peg. Yes surely, Sir.  
          
          
             Get-all. Then let us go to bed, and try if I can get  
             a Child after the old Corporeal way, for I never knew  
             when this Child was gotten.  
          
          
             Peg. But I must be Ceremoniously Married first.  
          
          
             Get-all. Hang Ceremony, those Children never come  
          
          
             to good that are got with Ceremony.  
          
          
             Peg. But I cannot lie with you Corporeally, unless  
          
          
             you honestly marry me.  
          
          
              Get-all.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 77  
          
          
             Get-all. Bit I tell you, I did not know when I got  
          
          
             this Child which l am forced to own.  
          
          
             Peg. 'Tis true, Sir ; but that was begot by your Idea,  
          
          
             and my Imagination, and not personally; wherefore,  
          
          
             if you desire to lie with me, you must first Marry me,  
             otherwise the Law Will severely punish us , and they  
          
          
             would be glad we should give them that occasion, that  
          
          
             they might take away your Wealth.  
             Get-all. Faith, thou shall rather breed by Conceit,  
          
          
             then I Marry really; but if we must not lie together  
          
          
             Corporeally, may not we kiss Corporeally ?  
             Peg. Truly Sir, I did never kiss any Man but in  
          
          
             the way of a civil Salute.  
          
          
             Get-all. But did not my Idea and your Imagination  
          
          
             kiss?  
             Peg. Yes Sir, but not Corporeally.  
             Get-all. Faith, I have a Natural desire to thee ; but I  
          
          
             dare not Marry thee,for fear I should be made a Cuckold,  
          
          
             as I have been made a Father.  
             Peg. Truly I am very Chast, and shall make a very  
          
          
             honest Wife; and if you will promise to Marry me,  
          
          
             I will discover by whom you have been deceived.  
          
          
             Get-all. If you can prove your self honest, I will.  
             Peg. Then know Sir, This Child which is laid to  
             your Charge, is none of mine, but a Bastard of my  
             Brother's, Captain Valour; but by reason my Brother  
             was ruin'd in the Civil Wars , and I having lost my  
             Portion in his ruine, I had not Means to maintain me  
          
          
              X  honestly,   
          
          
          
             78 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I V.  
          
          
             honestly, according to my quality ; wherefore,hearing  
             you were a very worthy person, and Rich, and an  
             unmarried Man, I desired my Brother's assistance in the  
          
          
             design of getting you to be my Husband ; but the de-  
          
          
             sign could not take effect if we had not counterfeited a  
             Spiritual Court and Judge, which Judge was Mr. Tra-  
             veller; and the Doctor Mr. Will Fullwit; and the Law  
             yer was Mr. Sencible; and my Brothers, Lieutenant and  
             Major, Witnesses, all gallant valiant Men, but poor  
             Cavaliers; so that the design was honest, but the ma-  
             nagement was full of deceit.  
             Get-all. But what was she that was the Midwife.  
             Peg. An honest ancient Gentlewoman, whose Hus-  
             band was kill'd in the Wars.  
             Get-all. Well, since you have so ingeniously told  
             me the truth, I will Marry thee for thy honest wit; for  
             he's a fool that will marry a fool.  
             Enter Judges as in a Court of Judicature, and Serjeant  
             Barister as a Pleader at the Bar, and his Clerk with a  
             bag of Papers; also Harry Sencible as the Defendant, and  
             Will Fullwit and Dick Traveller as Witnesses, the  
             Captain as a Plaintiff, and the Lieutenant and Anciant  
             as Witnesses.  
          
          
             Senj. May it please your Lordship, I am here to  
             Plead in my Clients behalf against Mr. Sensible, who  
             against the Laws of Honor, Honesty, and Civil Go-  
             vernment, hath a young Gentlewoman of good Birth  
             and Education (but poor) in his keeping, not by the  
          
          
              Gentle-   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 79  
          
          
             Gentlewoman's (or Friends) Consent, but by constraint  
             and force, inclosing her in a Chamber , under Locks  
             and Bolts, left she should escape from him.  
             Judg. Where is your Witnesses?  
             Lieut. Here my Lords..  
             Judg. Will you both Swear these Accusations for a  
          
          
             truth?  
             Lieut. We are ready to Swear whensoever the Book  
          
          
             is offered.  
          
          
             Judg. What says the Defendant?  
             Harry. My Lords, I will confess the truth, but I  
             desire Justice, and that my Accusation against Serjeant  
          
          
             Plead-all, may be heard.  
          
          
             Serj. Good my Lords, grant his Request; for I fear  
             not what can be said against me.  
          
          
             Judg. We grant his Request.  
          
          
             Harry. Then my Lords , I freely confess that I have  
             such a Gentlewoman in my keeping, as I am accused,  
             and do keep ther under Lock and Key; not for  
             fear she should leave me , but for fear some man should  
             steal her away from me ; for in this age Men are like  
             hungry Wolves , seeking to devour the Virginity and  
             Reputation of young handsome Women: But this  
             young Gentlewoman who I do so carefully keep, is my  
             own Natural Sister,Which these two Worthy Gentlemen,  
             Mr. Fullwit and Mr. Traveller, will witness; besides, I  
             can bring all my Neighbours that will witness the same;  
          
          
             and since Serjeant Plead-all hath endeavoured to disgrace  
             mer  
          
          
          
             80 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. I V.  
          
          
             me, not only before your Lordships, but before a  
             Court full People; I think it not unmeet , for me  
             to declare to your Lordships , That Serjeant Plead-all  
             hath at this present kept in his House as Gentlewoman, as  
             a Servant, in Man's Clothes, whose Birth and Breeding  
          
          
             is better then his own.  
          
          
             Serj. My Lords, I deny his Impeachment; and if  
          
          
             he can prove that I have a Woman in Man's Clothes,  
          
          
             that is a Houshold Servant of mine, I will Marry her,  
             were she an old Witch.  
             Harry. My Lords, this Assembly is sufficient witness  
          
          
             of what he hath said, as also what I have said; and to  
          
          
             prove what I say is true, here is the Gentlewoman who  
             serves him as his Clerk, in Man's clothes, she is  
          
          
             Sister to Mr. Fullwit, which he and others will witness,  
          
          
             and she her self confesses.  
          
          
             Jane. My Lords, I do confess I am a Woman, and  
             out of love to Serjeant Plead-all did take this disguise,  
             which I hope is pardonable, since it is not a breach of  
             the Laws of the Kingdom, whatsoever it may be in  
             modesty.  
          
          
             Sori. How is this! my Clerk a VVoman ! and must  
             be my VVife! I am finely cozen'd i'faith!  
          
          
             Harry. VVe beseech your Lordships to give your  
          
          
             Judgment.  
             Judges. Our Judgment is, That you are free, and  
          
          
             theSerjeant must Marry his She-Clerk.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
              SCENE.   
          
          
             Seen. II. The Female VVits. 81  
          
          
             SCENE. II.  
             Enter Father, with his Daughter.  
          
          
             Daughter.  
          
          
              P  Ray Sir, tell me whether you approve of my Choice?  
             Fath. To speak truly, Daughter, you have cho-  
             sen very wisely ; but how your Youth will agree with  
             Age, I cannot tell.  
          
          
             Daugh. Never fear it Sir , for I shall love Age in a  
          
          
             Husband, better then Youth in my self.  
          
          
             Fath. Well, Heaven bless you.  
             Enter a Messenger from the young Suiters.  
          
          
             Mess. Sir, Report says, that the Lady your Daugh-  
             ter , is to be Married to an ancient Man, to the great  
             disgrace of her other Suiters, Youth, Beauty, and Bra-  
             very; and therefore they desire, that before she Marries,  
             she would be pleased to give them all a publick  
             Audience.  
          
          
             Fath. Daughter, answer this Gentleman.  
          
          
             Daugh. Sir, pray tell them, that I cannot civilly deny  
             their Request , in case they'l be pleased to give me  
          
          
             leave to make a publick answer.  
          
          
             Mess. No question, Madam, but they will, and I  
             shall inform them of what you say. Exeunt.  
          
          
              Y  ACT   
          
          
          
             82 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             ACT V. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Mrs. Jane Fullwit in her Woman's Habit, and  
             Serjeant Plead-all.  
          
          
             Serjeant.  
              VV Ell Mistress, your VVit and your Person  
          
          
             hath not only excused your deceit, but I  
             am so in Love with you, that I would not but have  
             been deceived for all the World.  
          
          
             Jane. Sir, with your pardon, there is one more de-  
             ceived besides your self, and another like to be.  
          
          
             Serj. VVho be those?  
          
          
             Jane. He that is deceived, is Get-all the Usurer, and  
             he that shall he deceived is Doctor Cure-all.  
          
          
             Serj. What, my two Rivals?  
          
          
             Jane. Yes Sir.  
          
          
             Serj. Then they cannot laugh at me.  
          
          
             Jane. If they do, you may laugh at them again.  
             Serj. I would the old Lady was deceived.  
          
          
             Jane. She will in a short time.  
          
          
             Serj. Faith, I find that the Cavaliers are the best de-  
          
          
             ceivers.  
          
          
             Jane. They have been so oft deceived themselves, that  
          
          
             they have learned by their misfortunes.  
          
          
             Serj. But we will not deceive each other, but go to  
             your Brother to dispatch our Marriage.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 83  
          
          
             Enter Captain, Lieutenant, Cornet, and Will Fullwit,  
          
          
             then enters Harry in a Chamber-Maid's Habit.  
          
          
             Will. Mrs. Harry you are welcome, how doth your  
             good Lady? She makes a Curtsie ill-favouredly.  
          
          
             Harry. My Lady at this time is troubled with Love  
             in the Heart, and Gout in the Toe.  
          
          
             Capt. Is Dick Traveller the cause of the Love-sick  
             heart ?  
          
          
             Harry. No, it is the Lawyer's young Clerk.  
          
          
             Will. He is discovered.  
          
          
             Harry. Yes, but I will not suffer any to inform her  
             of it.  
             Cornet. But if her mind be young, I doubt we  
             may despair of our design.  
          
          
             Enter Dick Traveller.  
             Dick. Mrs. Harry, give me leave to salute you.  
             He makes Curtsie, and he salutes him.  
          
          
             Dick. Faith Harry,you kiss like a Woman;I pray Jove  
          
          
             you be not turn'd Female With wearing a Petticoat.  
          
          
             Harry. if I be, I pray Jove I may not be such a  
             Female as my old Lady is..  
          
          
             Dick. But how goeth on our design?  
          
          
             Harry. Fast towards a young man, but slowly to-  
             wards a gray head.  
          
          
             Dick. What young Man?  
          
          
             Harry. The Lawyer's Clerk.  
          
          
             Dick. What is she in Love With honest Jack? but  
          
          
             she is discovered.  
              Harry.   
          
          
          
             84 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
             Harry. But she knows not of it , for she is almost  
             desperate; and between every groan of pain, she sighs  
             for Love.  
             Dick. Why, then there is no hopes for me.  
             Harry. Not unless you are presented in the Name of  
          
          
             the Clerk, and marryed by Candle-light; for she being  
          
          
             half blind, will never distinguish which is which.  
             Captain. Faith, Harry's Counsel is good.  
             Will. But if she be as deaf as she is blind, we shall  
             not need to dissemble his Name.  
             Dick. But Harry, do you think she will live long?  
             Harry. My only fear is, she will hardly live so long  
             that he may be Married to her.  
             Dick. I hope she is not so desperately sick.  
             Lieut. If she should die before Dick is marryed, we  
             are all undone.  
          
          
             Cornet. If she should, it would be worse then our  
             Cashiering.  
          
          
             Will. Take comfort Gentlemen, for old Women  
             are such dry and tough meat, that Death cannot set  
             his Teeth into them, nor his Dart enter them.  
          
          
             Capt. Will lays true; for perchance she may last longer  
             then Dick would have her.  
          
          
             Dick. I would have her live till I am marryed to  
          
          
             her, and then let her die assoon as she will.  
          
          
             Harry. Well Gentlemen, I dare stay no longer for  
             fear my Lady should chide me most grievously.  
          
          
             Will. Thou art a most grievous Rogue.  
             Exit Harry.  Enter   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 85  
          
          
             Enter Serjeant and Jane.  
             Will. Hey-day, who comes here!  
             Serj.. We are come to have you for a Witness to  
             our Marriage, since you proved so good a one at the Bar.  
             Will. Stay so long, till we see an end of our Comedy.  
             Serj. If your Comedy be long , I shall not have  
             patience.  
             Capt. It shall be short , and you shall have more  
             Bridals to accompany you.  
             Enter Harry.  
             Harry. I have been at home with my Mistress; but  
             all the plot of Jack Clerk was revealed to her, whilst I  
             was here; O Mr. Plead-all I cry you mercy, I saw you  
             not.  
          
          
             Serj. Nay, Mrs. Harry pray conceal not any thing  
          
          
             for my being here; for I thank you, I am now become  
          
          
             one of the Society.  
             Harry. And how do you like of the Acquaintance.  
             Serj. So well, as I would not be a stranger for any  
          
          
             other good.  
          
          
             Harry. I presume Mrs. Jane hath pleased you well.  
             Serj. So well, as I am confident I shall be happy in  
             my Marriage: But how doth the old Lady take the dis-  
             covery of my She-Clerk?  
             Harry. Faith, as ill as she would take the discovery  
             of her He-Chamber-Maid; the truth is, she hath been in  
          
          
             such passions; as she is almost transform'd to Mummy.  
          
          
             Sori. That she was before the discovery.  
              Z  Harry.   
          
          
          
             86 The Sociable Companions ; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             Harry. But now she is more perfect Mummy then  
             she was ; but I, to comfort here, have promised to bring  
             her a handsome young Man, only his taller and bigger,  
             as being a Man ; and I did reason with her so long, that  
             I have perswaded her to love a Man,rather then a Boy.  
          
          
             Capt. And will she come to reason?  
          
          
             Harry. She will, upon condition he be a young Man.  
          
          
             Dick. But how shall I make my self appear to be a  
          
          
             young Man?  
          
          
             Cornet. You are not so old, but you may appear in  
             the dark to be a young Man.  
          
          
             Capt. Appear, say you! how the Devil can he ap-  
             pear in the dark?  
          
          
             Harry. Well, for the good of the Common-Weale,  
          
          
             I have devised a way,how Dick shall appear like a young  
          
          
             Man to blind eye.  
             Will. Faith, I know no difference between the dark  
          
          
             and a blind eye.  
          
          
             Harry. Hang you, a Pox of you, I meant a dim  
          
          
             eye.  
             Dick. Come,dim or blind, let's hear your design.  
             Harry. This is the design, Dick shall first shave as  
          
          
             close as may be, and then paint his Face , and with a  
          
          
             handsome Perriwig, and fine Clothes, he will appear a  
             Young Man to an Old Woman.  
          
          
             Will. Faith, the Paint must be laid on his Face as  
             think as Morter on a Wall, otherwise his age will be  
             seen.  
          
          
              Capt.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Female Wits. 87  
          
          
             Capt. Not to a dim eye.  
          
          
             Dick. Why, I have not such Wrincles in my face as  
             requires much filling up.  
          
          
             Harry. I will warrant you, that I will get such an  
             Artist, that if Dick's VVrincles were as deep as a Saw-  
             pit, they should be clos'd up, and his face appear fair and  
             even, if not smooth; wherefore Dick, get a handsome  
             Perriwig, and put on your best Suit of Clothes, and I  
             will send a Painter to your Chamber ; then go to her,  
             for she expects thee, and carry a Priest, and some Wit-  
             nesses, and Marry her.  
          
          
             Will. Will not you be there?  
          
          
             Harry. I cannot, but I have left those in her house  
             that shall conduct you to her; but I must go about  
             my Sisters affairs, where I most desire all the Company  
             to meet me at Doctor Cure-all's House.  
          
          
             All speak. We will not fail you.  
          
          
             Dick. But the Cornet and Lieutenant must go with  
             me to be my Witnesses.  
          
          
             Harry. Take them.  
          
          
             . ?1? 7-.- -J j.Jsrr.ï-j- 5- -:(.-. IJE:)t.-eunt?.:1  
               S C E N E   
          
          
          
             88 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter Doctor and his Man.  
             Doctor.  
              G Ive me my Cloak, for now the Clerk being proved a  
             Woman, I hope the old Lady will accept of me,  
             and that will be a double good fortune; first, that my  
             Rival is cheated ; next, that I shall be Master of the  
             Ladies Riches.  
             Man. Doth your Worship mean the old Lady?  
             Doct. Who should I mean else?  
             Man. Sir, she was Married last Night, about one of  
             the Clock, as her Servant told me this Morning.  
             Doct. Married ! to whom?  
             Man. To a young Cavalier, one Mr. DickTraveller.  
             Doct. What the Devil, hath he Married her?  
             Man. I know not whether the Devil Married them,  
             but certainly they are Married.  
             Doct. Why, he is older then I.  
          
          
             Man. He hath past for a young Man with the Lady.  
          
          
             Enter another Man.  
          
          
             2 Man. Sir, there's a young Gentlewoman desires to  
          
          
             speak with your Worship.  
             Doct. 'Tis some comfort to converse with a young  
             Woman, after the loss of an old-----  
             The Doctor goes forth,and enters leading Mrs.An.Sencible.  
             Doct. Lady, wherein may I serve you?  
              An.   
          
          
             Scen. I I. The Female Wits. 89  
          
          
             An. Sir, I am to desire your assistance for the Cure  
          
          
             of a Disease I am troubled with.  
          
          
             Doct. What Disease?  
          
          
             An. The Disease is Love.  
          
          
             Doct. Truly, Lady, a Physician hath no Remedy  
             for that Disease , unless the Party be in love with the  
             Physician.  
          
          
             An. The truth is, Sir, I am in Love with you.  
          
          
             Doct. With me Lady!  
             Enter Sensible, and when he enters, he sees his Sister, he  
             starts back and frowns, she seems to be afraid.  
          
          
             Harry. Is the Doctor and you so well acquainted, as  
             you two to be private alone.  
             An. Truly I was never here before.  
             Harry. 'Tis false.  
             Doct. I will assure you, Mr. Sencible, she speaks truth,  
             for she was never here to my knowledg before.  
             Harry. I perceive you both agree in a Story, and I  
             take it as an affront you should entertain my Sister in  
             private.  
             Doct. I vow to Heaven I never saw her before this  
             time, nor knew I that you were her Brother.  
             Harry. This answer will not serve me , for I will  
          
          
             have satisfaction; and as for you, Sister, I will offer you  
          
          
             up as a Sacrifice to Honour.  
          
          
             He draws his Sword, she shreeks out, and runs behind the  
          
          
             Doctor, the Doctor strives to defend her.  
             Doct. Sir, 'Tis unworthy to draw your Sword upon  
          
          
              Aa   a wo-   
          
          
          
             90 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             a Woman, or to fight with an unarmed Man.  
          
          
             Harry. I do not intend to fight with you at this time,  
          
          
             but to kill my Sister.  
             Doct. For what ?  
             Harry. For visiting a Man , and being alone with  
          
          
             him in his Chamber.  
          
          
             Doct. Why is that such a Crime?  
             Harry. 'Tis such a Crime, that unless she can prove  
          
          
             she is Married, or assured, I will kill her.  
          
          
             An. Good Doctor save my life.  
             Doct. Then Sir, give the leave to tell you, we are  
          
          
             agreed to Marry, may we have your consent?  
             Harry. I must have time to ask the advice of some  
          
          
             dear Friends first.  
             An. Dear Brother consent, without advice.  
          
          
             Harry. That I will not.  
             An. Then send for your Friends hither.  
             Harry. I have no body here to send.  
             Doct. You may have two or three of my Servants if  
             you please. Enter a Man.  
          
          
             Man. There is two Gentlemen below that desire to  
          
          
             speak with Mr Sencible.  
             Harry. They are come as I desired, pray bring them in.  
          
          
             Enter Will Fullwit, and tne Captain.  
          
          
             Dear Will, and Captain, I was sending for you both, to  
          
          
             ask your advice about a Cause that hath much troubled  
          
          
             me, which is a great concernment both to my Justice and  
          
          
             Honour.  
          
          
              Will.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Female Wits. 91  
          
          
             Will. What is that?  
          
          
             Harry. I coming to see Doctor Cure-all, found my  
             Sister out of my House, discoursing here alone with the  
             Doctor, which is a great discredit for a young Virgin,  
             to be not only abroad without attendance, but in Com-  
             pany with a Man alone, and in his Chamber.  
          
          
             Capt. That is not well, I did not believe Mrs. Anne  
             Sencible would have done such an act.  
          
          
             Doct. Gentlemen,the Laity is in no fault, for she and  
             I are agreed to marry, if her Brother consents.  
          
          
             Will. That is another Case; and will not you give  
             your consent Harry?  
          
          
             Harry. I cannot tell.  
          
          
             Capt. Come, come, you shall consent.  
          
          
             Will. Yes, yes, you shall Harry; Doctor give me your  
             hand, and Mrs. Sencible give me yours, so joyn them  
             together ; do you agree truly and really to Marry?  
          
          
             Both Answer. We do.  
             Capt. Then, Mr. Sencible, give them joy of their  
             Contract.  
          
          
             Harry. I wish you Both joy.  
             Enter to the Doctor, Mrs. Peg Valorosa, Get-all, Ser-  
          
          
             jeant Plead-all, and Mrs. Jane Fullwlt,  
          
          
             Get-all. Come, come, Captain Valorous,let us go to the  
             Church, for I am impatient.  
          
          
             Serj. Not fo impatient as I.  
             Capt. Faith, we come in here to take another  
          
          
             Couple along with us.  
              Get-all   
          
          
          
             88 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter Doctor and his Man.  
          
          
             Doctor.  
              G lve me my Cloak, for now the Clerk being proved a  
             Woman, I hope the old Lady will accept of me,  
             and that will be a double good fortune ; first, that my  
             Rival is cheated ; knext, that I shall be Master of the  
             Ladies Riches.  
          
          
             Man. Doth your Worship mean the old Lady?  
             Doct. Who should I mean else?  
             Man. Sir, she was Married last Night, about one of  
          
          
             the Clock, as her Servant told me this Morning.  
             Doct. Married ! to whom ?  
             Man. To a young Cavalier, one Mr. DickTraveller.  
             Doct. What the Devil, hath he Married her?  
             Man. l know not whether the Devil Married them,  
             but certainly they are Married.  
             Doct. Why, he is older then I.  
             Man. He hath past for a young Man With the Lady.  
             Enter another Man.  
          
          
             2 Man. Sir, there's a young Gentlewoman desires to  
          
          
             speak with your Worship.  
             Doct. 'Tis some comfort to converse with a young  
             Woman, afterthe loss of an old-----  
             The Doctor goes forth,and enters leading Mrs.An-Sencible.  
             Doct. Lady, wherein may I serve you?  
              An.   
          
          
             Seen. I I. The Female Wits. 89  
          
          
             An. Sir, I am to desire your assistance for the Cure  
          
          
             of a Diseases I am troubled with.  
          
          
             Doct. What Disease ?  
          
          
             An.. The Disease is Love.  
          
          
             Doct. Truly, Lady, a Physician hath no Remedy  
             for that Disease , unless the Party be in Love with the  
             Physician.  
          
          
             An. The truth is, Sir, I am in Love with you.  
          
          
             Doct. With me Lady !  
             Enter Sencible, and when he enters, he sees his Sister, he  
             starts back and frowns, she to be afraid.  
          
          
             Harry. Is the Doctor and you so well acquainted, as  
             you two to be private alone.  
             An. Truly l was never here before.  
             Harry. 'Tis false.  
             Doct. I will assure you, Mr. Sencible, she speaks truth,  
             for she was never here to my knowledg before.  
             Harry. I perceive you both agree in a Story, and I  
             take it as an affront you should entertain my Sister in  
             private.  
          
          
             Doct. l vow to Heaven I never saw her before this  
          
          
             time, nor knew I that you were her Brother.  
             Harry. This answer will not serve me , for I will  
          
          
             have satisfaction; and as for you, Sister, I will offer you  
          
          
             up as a Sacrifice to Honour.  
          
          
             He draws his sword, she shreeks out, and runs behind the  
          
          
             Doctor, the Doctor strives to defend her.  
             Doct. Sir, 'Tis unworthy to draw your Sword upon  
          
          
              Aa  a wo-   
          
          
          
             The Sociahle-Companiom; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             a Woman, or to fight With an unarmed Man.  
          
          
             Harry. I do not intend to fight with vouai this time,  
          
          
             but to kill my Sister.  
             Door. For What ?  
             Harry. -Fo-r-vifiting-a Man' and being alone with  
          
          
             him in his JGhamber.  
          
          
             Doct. Why is that such a Crime?  
          
          
             Hartsy. 'Tis such a Crime, that unless she can prove  
             she is Married, or assured, Will kill her.  
          
          
             An. Good--Doctor lave my -.lifc.  
          
          
             Doct. Then.. Sir, give pme leave to tell .you, We are  
             agreed to Marry, may WeJ-ha-ve your coulent ?  
          
          
             Party. I must have time to ask-athe advice of some  
          
          
             dear Friends first.jlt K f  
             An. Dear Brother Consent, Without advice.  
          
          
             Harry. That :I will not.  
             An. Then lend for your Friends hither  
             Har..ry.- I have no body hereto -send.  
             Doff. You. may have two or three of m y Servants if  
             you please. zEnJi.er- a Man  
          
          
             J Mari.-There is two Gentlemen belowsthat desire to  
          
          
             speak WithiMr.-Seucible.  
             Harry. They are come as Idefired' pray bring them in  
          
          
             Enter Will Fallait, andine Captain.  
          
          
             Dear Will, and Captain, I was lending for you both' to  
          
          
             ask your advice about a Canst that-hath troubled  
          
          
             me, which is a great.eoneernmen-t both to my.Justiee and  
          
          
             Honour.  
          
          
             Will.  
          
          
             .s-(zn..n. ra papacy Wir..z.- qï  
          
          
             Will. What is that?  
          
          
             Harry. looming-ito lee Doctor Cure-all, found my  
             Sister out of my Houle, discoursing here alone With the  
             Doctor, Which isa great discredit for a young Vkrgln'.  
             to be not only abroad Without attendaneej but m Com  
             pany With a Man alone, and in his Chamber.  
          
          
             Capt. That is not Well, Did. not believe Anne  
             Serialise Would have done such an act  
          
          
             Doct. Genrlemen,the Lady is in no fault-' for she and  
             I are agreed to marry' if her Brother eonsents.  
          
          
             Will. That is another Case; and Will not you give  
             your consent Harry ?.  
          
          
             Haray. Ieannottell.  
          
          
             Capt. Come, come,you shal-l'-eons.'ent.  
          
          
             Will. Yes, yes' you shall Harjy; Dosto.r gry-elme your  
             hand, and Mrs. Sencihle give vrne.y('mr-s ' lb joyn them  
             together ; do you agree truly and really to Marry.?  
          
          
             Both Atffwer. We dos h  
          
          
             Capt. Then, Mr. Sencibla, give yoy o .t- eir  
             Contract. sh B oh  
          
          
             r lwi. ou ot' .joy-.,--. d  
             Mrs. Valoroffi, Get-.a,.lï.:,v Ser-;  
          
          
             jeant Plead-all, and Msrs..Jane Fullwlt.; h  
          
          
             Get-all. Come,come' Captain Valorom'le.t us go to t. e  
             Chureh, for l am impatients l  
          
          
             -.. ot-so im discutas  
          
          
             wepeome in here to take another  
          
          
             Couple along with us-  
          
          
          
             92 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act. V.  
          
          
             Get-all. Are they agreed?  
          
          
             Harry. They are, they are ; there only wants that  
          
          
             Ceremony, You do, and all is sure.  
             Enter Dick Traveller, Lieutenant and Cornet.  
             Dick. I am come only to make one to fill up the  
             Matrimonial Triumphs.  
          
          
             Harry. How doth my old Lady like the young  
          
          
             Blade ?  
          
          
             Dick. So well, as she is so well pleased , as it hath  
          
          
             made her half young again.  
          
          
             Enter Mistress Informer.  
          
          
             Dick. Welcome Mrs. Informer.  
             Inf. By my troth, my heart did tremble, for fear I  
             should not come time enough to these fortunate Nuptials.  
             Get-all. Well, to let all this Company see , that I the  
             first deceived, am as well, if not better, pleased then the  
             deceivers ; here I do promise to give my Brother,  
             that must be Captain Valorous, Twenty thousand pounds  
          
          
             to maintain his Bastards, to discharge his Whores, and  
          
          
             to Marry a Virtuous and Honourable Wife ; also, I  
             give Doctor Feel-pulse, Will Fullwit , Five thousand  
             pounds; and Harry Sensible Five thousand more ; and  
             Five thousand pound to the Lieutenant ; and Five thou-  
             sand pounds between the Cornet and Mrs. Informar ; as  
          
          
             for my Judg Dick Traveller, I did intend to have see'd  
          
          
             him well, and to give him money to have bought a  
             place in the Arches, but he is better provided.  
          
          
             Serj. I cannot present the whole Society, but I will  
          
          
              make   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Female Wits. 93  
             make my Brother Fullwit's Five thousand pounds, you  
             gave him, Ten.  
             Doct. So will I give as much to my Brother Harry  
             Sencible.  
             Dick. And I will prevent the rest of the Society.  
          
          
             Will. Let's go unto Church to make all sure,  
          
          
             For nothing in Extreams will long endure.  
             Capt. Stay we must go to the Hearing of my Cousin  
             Prudencer'sCause first,andthenwe shall have another couple.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
             The Scene is a Publick-Hall, or Pleading-Court , wherein  
             is a Publick Assembly, the Young Suiters and some other  
          
          
             Gallants, taking one Bar, and the Young Lady and her  
             Old Suiter another; and all Bridal Couples.  
          
          
             One of the Young Suiters speaks.  
          
          
             Most Noble Auditors.  
              I Am chosen by my fellow-Sufferers to declare the  
             Injustice and Injury this young Lady has done us,and  
             her self, by refusing us that are young, handsome, heal-  
             thy and strong, for an old, infirm, weak and decayed  
          
          
             Man, who has neither a clear Eye-fight to admire her  
          
          
             Beauty, nor a perfect Hearing to be informed of her  
             Wit; nor sufficient Strength to fight her behalf, or  
             defend her Honour ; nor that heat of affection that he  
          
          
              B b   can   
          
          
          
             94 The Sociable Companions; Or, Act.V.  
          
          
             can love her as she deserves. Indeed, it is not to be  
             suffer'd that old Men and Women should Marry  
             Young Persons; for it is as much as to tie or bind the  
             Living and Dead together ; for, though it cannot be truly  
          
          
             laid, that old age is dead, yet we may say, 'tis rotten, and  
          
          
             Corruption is next to death ; for all Creatures corrupt  
          
          
             before they dissolve; and we are taught by our holy Fa-  
             thers, that we must put off the Old Man, and put on the  
             New Man : Wherefore, 'tis not lawful for this young  
          
          
             Lady to Marry that old Man, it being both against  
             Church and State, as not profitable to either, but dis-  
             advantagious to both.  
          
          
             The Ladies Answer.  
          
          
             Most Noble Auditors,  
              I Come not here to express either my Wit or Ma-  
             lice, but to defend my honest Cause, and to express  
             my true Love; Wherefore, I shall briefly answer this  
          
          
             Gentleman's Objections: First, as for the Injustice he  
             accuses me of , I utterly deny that I am guilty, for to  
          
          
             make a lawful Choice is no Injustice to them ; and to  
             refuse a young Man before an old and wise one, is no  
          
          
             Injury to my self; Next, what he says of their Hand-  
             somness , Health and Strength; I answer, that in my  
          
          
             opinion, a handsome Man is an error in Nature, and  
             Health and Strength are very uncertain in young Men;  
             for their Vices decay one, and impair the other, before  
          
          
              their   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Female Wits. 95  
          
          
             their Natural time ; whereas, the Infirmities of Old  
             Age are Natural, neither infectious, unwholsome or  
             dangerous to their Wives: And though ancient Men  
             have not their Hearing so quick, nor their Eye-sight so  
          
          
             clear as young Men, yet have they quicker Wits, and  
             clearer Understandings , acquired by long Experience  
             of all sorts of Actions, Humors, Customs, Discourses,  
          
          
             Accidents, and Fortuns amongst Mankind; Where-  
             fore, old Men cannot chuse but be more Knowing,  
             Rational and Wise then Young. Concerning the  
             Church and State, since they do allow of buying and  
             selling young Maids to Men to be their VVives, they  
             cannot condemn those Maids that make their bargain to  
          
          
             their own advantage, and chuse rather to be bought  
          
          
             then sold , and I confess I am one of the number of  
          
          
             those ; for I'le rather chuse and old Man that buys me  
             with his VVealth, then a young one, whom I must  
             purchase with my VVealth; who,after he was wasted my  
             Estate, may sell me to Misery and Poverty. Where-  
             fore, our Sex may well pray, From Young Mens ignor-  
             ance and follies, from their pride, vanity and prodiga-  
             lity, their gaming, quarelling, drinking and whoring,  
             their pocky and diseased bodies, their Mortgages, Debts  
             and Serjeants, their VVhores and Bastards, and from  
          
          
             all such forts of Vices and Miseries that are frequent  
          
          
             amongst Young Men, Good Lord deliver Us. But  
          
          
             for fear of such a Misfortune as to be a VVife to a  
          
          
             young Man, I will Marry this ancientMan,and so,Cousins,  
             I am, if you please, ready to wait on you to Church.  
          
          
             FINIS.  
          
          
          
             E P I L O G U E.  
          
          
              T H E Sociable Companions we hope do fit  
             Your Judgments, Fancies, and your better Wit:  
             This Lady is Ambitious, I dare say,  
          
          
             That all Her hopes is, That you'l like her Play.  
          
          
             Which favour, She esteems at a high rate,  
          
          
             'Bove Title, Riches, or what's Fortune's Fate;  
          
          
             She listens, with a trembling ear; She stands  
             Hoping to hear Her Joy, by your glad Hands.  
          
          
             The Presence.  
          
          
             A COMEDY.  
          
          
             ACT I. SCENE I.  
             As an Introduction to the Play.  
             Enter two Gentlemen.  
          
          
             First Gentleman.  
             TOM, How do you like the New  
             Plays?  
             2 Gent. As I like an Old Wife,  
             Not Well.  
             1 Gent. If the judgment of the  
             Stage should hear you, they would  
          
          
             condemn you.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Faith, that Condemnation would be a Com-  
          
          
             mendation to me, and a reproach to themselves; for those  
          
          
             that cannot judge of Wit, cannot judge of Me.  
              B   
          
          
              l Gent.   
          
          
          
             2 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             1 Gent. Cannot they judg of Wit, say you?  
          
          
             2 Gent. No; for those that understand not Wit, can-  
             not judge of Wit.  
             1 Gent. Do they not understand Wit?  
          
          
             2 Gent. No, for if they did, they would not ap-  
             plaud Plays, that have neither Humour, Wit, nor  
             Satyr; which are those they name New Plays, made up  
             of Old Romances.  
          
          
             1 Gent. But New Plays have Plots, Designs, Ca-  
             tastrophes and Intrigues.  
          
          
             2 Gent. What are those?  
          
          
             1 Gent. Those are to express Policy, Ingenuity and  
             Art; besides, they describe Love, Justice, Honour, and  
             the like.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Why, Seneca doth express Moral Virtues,  
             and Machiavillian Policy, better and more properly then  
             Dramatick Poetry; and the Spectators will learn more  
             in one day by reading their Works, or such like Au-  
             thors, then by seeing forty Plays, and less Charge: Be-  
             sides, it doth lessen the esteem of such grave Learning,  
             neither is it more proper for Plays then the Scrip-  
             ture is.  
             1 Gent. But the Scripture was Acted in the old time.  
             2 Gent. Truly, and I have heard they were foolish  
             Plays, although made out of the Sacred Scripture; and  
             that there was a Superscription of one Play set upon  
             a Post, which was thus, Here is a Play to be seen of  
             King Saul, with the merry Conceits of David and Go-  
              liah;   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Presence. 3  
          
          
             liah; which certainly was profane. But a Stage is not  
             an University, Grammar-School, or Church; for by  
             such actions or descriptions, it would rather abuse Reli-  
             gion, and corrupt Learning, then advance them; for  
             though the Stage may be very beneficial to young per-  
             sons to learn good Behavior, Discourse and Wit, yet  
             not to learn Morality and Divinity; and as for Policy,  
             all Men are naturally apt to be Dissemblers, they shall  
             not need to be instructed; also, concerning the descrip-  
             tion of foolish Romancical Love, it doth but corrupt  
             the minds and thoughts of Men and Women, which  
             causes not only foolish and unhappy Marriages, but  
             wicked Adulteries.  
          
          
             1 Gent. But pray tell me what you mean by that  
          
          
             you name Satyr? whether you do not mean railing?  
          
          
             2 Gent. No, for railing is to speak ill of particular  
             persons; but Satyr is to reprove general Vices.  
          
          
             1 Gent. And what do you mean by Wit and  
             Humor?  
             2 Gent. By Wit I mean similizing, and distin-  
             guishing of Words and Things; by Humour I mean  
             the Behaviours, Dispositions and Practices of Mankind;  
             all which good Comedies will inform Youth better,  
             then far and dangerous Travels; but as for Morality  
             and Policy, as I said before, they are more proper for  
             Schools and States, then for Stages.  
          
          
             1 Gent. But Lovers Scenes are most pleasing to the  
          
          
             Spectators, and are the best part in a Play.  
              2 Gent.   
          
          
          
             4 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             2 Gent. In my opinion the Lover's part is the worst  
             part; but as for such Love-making as is in the New  
             Plays, it would give me as good a vomit to see it,  
          
          
             as Crocus Mettallorum steept in wine, or the like, and  
          
          
             swallow'd down my throat.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter as in the Presence, Mons. Conversant,  
             Mons. Observer, and Mons. Mode.  
          
          
             Conversant.  
              G Ood Morrow Gentlemen; Mons. Mode, did not  
             you attend the Emperor to the Chappel to day?  
             Mode. No, but I am going to attend him from the  
             Chappel.  
             Conv. It had been better you had attended him into  
             the Chappel for your own sake, for there you might  
             have said your Prayers, which, it is probable, you  
             Courtiers seldom do.  
             Mode. Faith, we Courtiers have little time to pray;  
             for what with Dressing, Trimming, Waiting, Ushering;  
             Watching, Courting, and the like, all our time is spent.  
             Obs. It seems Courtiers are so much concern'd with  
             their bodies, as they regard not their Souls.  
          
          
             Mode. Pleasure lives with the Body, and we Courti-  
          
          
             ers live with Pleasure; as for the Soul it is not well  
             known what it is; but let it be what it will, or can be, or  
          
          
              is,   
          
          
             Scen II. The PRESENCE. 5  
          
          
             is, yet it belongs more to another World, then to this;  
             which other World we Courtiers care not for, nor  
          
          
             think thereof; we only desire to be happy in this World,  
             for we are well content to quit the Happiness of the  
          
          
             next World for the pleasure of this present World.  
          
          
             Conv. But yet when Courtiers come to die, they  
          
          
             will wish they had thought more of the next VVorld,  
             and less of this.  
          
          
             Mode. Faith, we Courtiers never think of Death,  
          
          
             until Death think of us; and when Death remem-  
          
          
             bers us so, as to take us out of this VVorld, we be-  
          
          
             lieve we shall only die and turn to dust, and be no  
          
          
             more; we are only troubled and grieved that our  
          
          
             Masking delights are at an end, and that our light of life,  
             and delights of Pleasure must be put out by Death's Ex-  
             stinguisher; the truth is, with Court-Gallants, Court-  
             Officers, and State-Magistrates, it is according to the  
             old observation, which is, They live without Consci-  
             ence, and die without fear.  
             Obs. I did believe that Courtiers had been so vain,  
             that they could not be so valiant, as to die without  
             fear.  
             Mode. There are many sorts of Valours, or rather  
             I may say, Courages; for though most Courtiers have  
             not Valour to fight Duels, or in Battels; yet they  
             have courage to run in debt, not fearing Imprisonment,  
             and they have courage to Court Mistresses, not fearing  
             the Pox; also, they have courage to flatter, cozen, dis-  
              C  semble,   
          
          
          
             6 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             semble, profess, protest, and then betray, not fearing  
             dishonour.  
          
          
             Conv. Will not Courtiers fight, say you?  
          
          
             Mode. No faith, if they can chuse to avoid it; for  
             we Courtiers are Men for Life, and not for death; for  
             though we are Men of Action, yet not Warlike  
             Actions.  
          
          
             Conv. In what are Courtiers active?  
          
          
             Mode. In Dancing, Racing, Tennis-playing, Carding,  
             Dicing, and the like; for should a Soldier become a  
             Courtier, he would become a Coward in a short time;  
          
          
             for the Pleasures of the Court do abate the Courage  
          
          
             of War.  
          
          
             Conv. I believe you, because you are a Courtier, and  
             know a Courtier best; but I fear you will not appear a  
             diligent Attendant, if you go not to the Chappel to  
             wait upon the Emperour.  
          
          
             Mode. You say true, wherefore farwell.  
          
          
             Conv. But before you go, pray inform us of the  
             cause that makes the Princess so Melancholy?  
          
          
             Mode. That which makes most Women Melancholy,  
             to wit, Amorous Love.  
             Obs. 'Tis said, that it is a pleasing pain; but is the  
          
          
             Princess in Love?  
          
          
             Mode. Yes.  
          
          
             Conv. With whom?  
          
          
             Mode. With no body.  
             Conv. Can she be in Love with no body?  
          
          
              Mode.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 7  
          
          
             Mode. Yes faith, rather then Women, will not be  
             in love, they will love no body.  
             Conv. That is impossible.  
             Mode. It is not impossible, if an Idea be no body;  
             and 'tis said, Thoughts are Ideas.  
          
          
             Obs. I suppose that no Women are in love with their  
             own Thoughts, for if they were, they would think  
             more, and speak less; wherefore, you are mistaken; for  
             Women are in love with their own Words.  
             Mode. If they be, their love is placed still upon no  
             body; for the old opinion is, That Words are bodi-  
             less: But the Princess is in love with an Idea she met with  
             in a Dream in the Region of her Brain; and unless she  
             may enjoy this Idea, not only awake, but imbodied, she  
             cannot be at rest in her mind!  
          
          
             Conv. If this be true, it is a strange Love!  
          
          
             Mode. It is as true as strange, and as strange as true;  
          
          
             and all the Ladies in the Court are becoming Dreaming-  
             Lovers to imitate the Princess.  
             Obs. All the Ladies, say you?  
             Mode. Yes faith, All, both Maids, Widows and  
             Wives.  
             Conv. As for Wives, it is fit they should never have  
             other Lovers, both for their Husbands and their own  
             sake; for then their Love and Lovers cannot possibly  
             be known, if they can but keep their own Counsels.  
             Mode. But they cannot keep their own Counsels,  
             for if they could, they would never have divulged thier  
             Amorous Dreams. Exit Mode.  Enter   
          
          
          
             8 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             Enter Spend-all to Conversant and Observer.  
             Conv. Monsieur Spend-all, I wish you joy of your  
          
          
             Preferment, for I hear you have a place bestow'd upon  
          
          
             you, agreeable and proper for your Pastime and Pro-  
          
          
             fession; for you being a great Gamester, are made  
             Croom-Porter.  
          
          
             Spend. No faith, but I am not; for Keep-all, the old  
          
          
             miserable Userer, is made Groom-Porter.  
          
          
             Conv. Why, that is very well ; for he may put out  
          
          
             his Money to use amongst the Gamesters, and have Am's  
          
          
             ace for his Interest; but if he be made Groom-Porter,  
          
          
             you shall be Lord Treasurer.  
          
          
             Spend. No faith, I would have but on Office, if I  
          
          
             might have my choice.  
             Obs. What Office is that?  
             Spend. Master of the Mint.  
             Obs. That will not do you much good, unless you  
          
          
             were Master of the Coyn; but if you were Master of  
          
          
             of the Coyn, you would play all away at Cards and  
          
          
             Dice, Tennis, and such like Games.  
             Spend. If I did, I should do but as most Gentlemen  
             do, that have Estates, which spend their Money for  
             their pleasure; and I take Pleasure in Gaming.  
             Conv. But not to lose.  
             Spend. I had rather lose, then not play.  
             Obs. I did believe that Gamesters play'd more out of  
             covetousness, then for pleasure.  
             Spend. You mistake; for Gamesters are more in love  
          
          
              with   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 9  
          
          
             with Cards, Dice, and Rackets, then Lovers are with  
          
          
             Women.  
          
          
             Conv. And I believe Gamesters fear Fortune more  
          
          
             then Lovers do the Spiritual Court, the Parish-  
          
          
             Constable, or the City-Watch.  
          
          
             Spend. Faith, Fortune is like most Magistrates, or great  
             Officers, who will cruelly punish some, and partially  
          
          
             favour others; and all her actions are without Reason  
          
          
             and Justice.  
             Obs. But you cannot bribe Fortune.  
             Spend. No, and in that respect Lovers have the bet-  
             ter of Gamesters.  
             Conv. But Gamesters are for the most part Lovers.  
             Spend. Faith, no; for a Gamester cannot spare so much  
             time, as to kiss a Mistress; but fare you well, for I must  
             go to the Porters Lodge.  
             Conv. But tell me truly, before you go, whether  
             Keep-all the Usurer is made Groom-Porter?  
             Spend. The truth is, I did but jest; for he is not  
             Groom-Porter, but the Knave of Clubs is made  
             Groom-Porter.  
             Conv. If it be so, then that place is properly served,  
          
          
             for the Knave of Clubs is a fit person for that Office.  
          
          
             Exeunt Men.  
              D  SCENE.   
          
          
          
             10 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
             SCENE III.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess and her Governess.  
          
          
             Princess.  
          
          
              W Hich of the Gods and Goddesses shall I pray  
             to assist me, since my beloved is Spiritual,  
          
          
             and not Mortal, at least not Temporal; but yet he is  
          
          
             not Coelestial; for surely an Idea is not a god, although  
             it be not a bodily Creature?  
          
          
             Govern. But Souls may meet and converse, and en-  
          
          
             joy each other.  
             Prin. How meet?  
          
          
             Govern. In the Mind.  
             Prin. But that's no satisfaction to Humane kind.  
             Govern. I know not whether Satisfaction doth, but  
          
          
             surely Tranquility lives in the Mind ; and the  
          
          
             god of Dreams hath presented the Idea , which surely  
          
          
             is the Soul of some Noble and Meritorious Lover, as  
             a reward to your Vertue.  
          
          
             Prin. How foolishly you talk!as if the gods were Lover's  
             Mediators : But if they should humble themselves in  
             such Amorous Imployments, and did present this Idea,  
             then I should enjoy it every time I sleep; but alass, I  
             never did perceive it but once, and then like as a  
             Heavenly Vision, no sooner perceived, but vanished  
             away.  
          
          
              Govern.   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The PRESENCE. 11  
          
          
             Govern. But can you love so much upon so small  
             an acquaintance?  
          
          
             Prin. I am of Marlow's opinion, Who ever lov'd,  
             that loves not at first sight!  
          
          
             But this Idea is fixed in my heart,  
          
          
             And whilst I live will never thence depart:  
          
          
             But I will make Apelles my dear Saint,  
          
          
             And he shall both my Love and Passion paint.  
          
          
             Apelles, draw this Passion in my Heart,  
             And make the Picture of my Love by Art:  
          
          
             For thou the first was he that did invent  
          
          
             To Figure Passions, and them to present  
          
          
             To object's sence; and if so, then I  
          
          
             May my Idea by my eyes descrie;  
             For all Ideas they, as Spirits prove,  
             They are not Substance, but in Substance move.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
             Enter Mode to Observer and Spend-all.  
          
          
             Observer.  
          
          
              A Re the Ladies coming into the Presence?  
             Mode, No, they all keep their beds to enjoy  
             their Lovers so, as they sleep to dream, and dream to  
             be embraced.  
          
          
             Obs. They shall not need to do that, for they may  
          
          
             be embraced awake.  
          
          
              Mode:   
          
          
          
             12 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             Mode. O fie! that is an old out-worn fashion, and  
             is more proper for old Ladies, then young.  
          
          
             Obs. Sure you mistake; for Dreams are more proper  
             for old Ladies, and waking-embraces for young.  
          
          
             Mode. Nay, then you mistake, for young Ladies  
             love Amorous Contemplations, otherwise they would  
             not delight so much in Romances as they do; but old  
             Ladies who have more experience,and so are wiser, love  
             the fruition of Realities; which makes them love young  
             Men, not in Dreams or Romances, but in Courts and  
             Cities.  
          
          
             Spend. If so, then young Men may despair of young  
             Women, and old Women not be jealous of young  
             Women; and if I were sure of that, I would present-  
             ly clap up a Match with an old doting Lady that I  
             am acquainted withal, who is as rich as old.  
          
          
             Mode. You had best make hast for fear you should  
             have Rivals; for if all young Men despair, the old  
             Women will be so Wooed, that the multiplicity and  
             choice will make them as nice, coy and proud, as the  
             most prime young Beauties.  
          
          
             Spend. You say true, wherefore I will be beforehand,  
             and go to her before she hears of this dreaming-fashion.  
          
          
             Conv. But how if this fashion should soon change to  
          
          
             a quite opposite?  
             Spend. Yes, there is the danger; therefore I will  
             not go.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen IV. The PRESENCE. 13  
          
          
             Enter the young Princess Melancholy, and some Ladies,  
          
          
             whereof one rubs her eyes, the other gapes, the third  
             stretches her self; all passing over the Stage.  
             Obs. Lord bless us! what a drowsie fashion the Ladies  
          
          
             have got?  
             Conv. But to my view, they were not so drowsie but  
          
          
             they did leer upon us.  
             Mode. That was to view if any of us was the Man  
          
          
             they dream'd of.  
          
          
             Obs. O Lord! if it be thy will, let me be the Man the  
          
          
             Princess dreams of.  
             Spend. And I desire I might be the Man they all  
             did dream of ; which if so, the Grand Signior would  
             not be better served, then I should; nor more nume-  
             rously, for I should have all the young Women in the  
             Kingdom.  
             Mode. If you had, you could not Marry them all.  
          
          
             Spend. No, but I could Manage them all.  
             Mode. They would rather Manage you.  
          
          
             Spend. I should be well pleas'd to be Managed by a  
             young Lady.  
             Mode. But not by so many young Ladies as are in  
             the Kingdom.  
             Obs. If he were, he would be Managed so, as to be a  
          
          
             lame Jade.  Exeunt.   
          
          
              E   SCENE   
          
          
          
             14 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
             Enter Lady Quick-wit, and Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Quick-wit.  
          
          
              S Elf-conceit, the new Maids are come that are to be  
             our Chamber-fellows.  
          
          
             Self. Where, where are they? for God's sake, tell me  
             quickly, I long to see them; but are they handsome?  
          
          
             Quick. No, by my troth; for one of them is so bash-  
             ful, that what Beauty Nature hath given her, is spoi-  
             led for want of breeding; the other is none of Nature's  
             choicest Pieces.  
          
          
             Self. But what are they?  
          
          
             Quick. They are gone by the back-staires, to the  
             Princess.  
             Self. The Princess keeps her Chamber to day.  
          
          
             Quick. Yes, but she has permitted them into her  
             Presence.  
             Enter all the Gentlemen.  
          
          
             Self. Gallants, are the new Maids come from the  
             Princess?  
          
          
             Mode. No, we come to see them; for it is said, they  
             are very handsome.  
          
          
             Self. I have heard by two or three, That they are  
             not handsome.  
             Quick. They are coming, they are coming.  
          
          
             Enter the Mother, and the Lady Bashful.  
          
          
              Moth.   
          
          
             Scen. V. PRESENCE. 15  
             Moth. Where is the Princess, Gentlemen, to give  
             the Oath to this young Lady?  
          
          
             All the Gentlemen come to Salute Her.  
             Obs. Mother, will you give me leave to Salute your  
          
          
             Daughter?  
          
          
             Moth. Should I not give you leave, you would  
             take leave. He Salutes the young Maid.  
          
          
             Obs. Lady, you will add to the Splendor of  
             the Court.  
             Conv. Lady, you will advance the Glory of your  
             Sex. He Salutes Her.  
          
          
             Mode. Mother, you are one of the fortunatest Mo-  
             thers that ever came to the Court; for here was never  
             such a company of Beauties at one time, as is at this  
             time.  
          
          
             Moth. Come, come, you are all Flatterers; where-  
             fore my Daughter beware of them.  
          
          
             Self. Mother, your new-come Daughter is bashful.  
          
          
             Quick. You must perswade her to hold up her head.  
          
          
             Self. What eyes has she, black or gray?  
          
          
             Moth. Well, well, pray have patience; for by that  
             time she has been in the Court so long as either of you,  
          
          
             has been, she will be as confident as any in the Court.  
          
          
             Quick. But Mother where is your other new Daughter?  
             Moth. She is coming forth ; and by my faith she is  
          
          
             a metled Lass indeed. But come Daughter Bashful, we  
             must go seek the Gentleman that must give you your  
             Oath. Exit Mother, and Lady Bashful.  
              Quick.   
          
          
          
             16 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             Quick. Lord! how simply she looks!  
          
          
             Mode. Give me a simple Girl; I love to teach, not  
          
          
             to learn.  
             Self. What a dull eye she has!  
             Conv. A Melancholy eye, for variety, sometimes  
             pleases best.  
             Self. She has an unfortunate brow.  
             Obs. Her brows seem like a bow , that's ready bent  
             to shoot Love's glances forth.  
             Quick. She hangs down her head as if she were wor-  
             king of Cross-stitch.  
             Spend. She looks as if she would be as constant as  
             Penelope was.  
             Enter the other new Maid, the Lady Wagtail.  
             Wagt. Where is the Mother, is she always so confi-  
             dent of her Daughters, as to leave them to themselves?  
             Mode. I marry Sir, this Lady seems to have mettal.  
             Conv. She seems of a free Spirit.  
             Obs. A Lady of an excellent Presence.  
             Spend. There is life in her Countenance.  
             Wagt. Pray, Gentlemen, which way went the Mother?  
          
          
             All the Gentlemen run out to seek the Mother, then  
             return back and speak to Her.  
          
          
             Lady. The Mother will come presently.  
             Wagt. Pray, Gentlemen, excuse me for troubling you;  
             I should not have been so rude, but that I am ignorant  
             of the wayes in Court, but I shall be industrious to  
             learn them, and then I shall be ready to serve you.  
              Gent.   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 17  
          
          
             Gent. We are all your Vassals, Lady.  
          
          
             Lady Wagtail addresses her self to Self-conceit and  
             Quick-wit.  
          
          
             Wagt. Ladies, I shall be glad to have the honour of  
             your Friendship, and to be endeared to such honourable  
             Sisters.  
          
          
             Self. We shall be ready to serve you.  
             Enter Mrs. Wanton, one of the Maids of Honour, as  
          
          
             running into the Room.  
          
          
             Want. Where is my Comrade?where is my Comrade?  
             Wagtail and Wanton meet, Embrace and Kiss  
             each other.  
             Want. Dear Wagtail, thou art according to my heart.  
             Wagt. My dear Wanton, I make no doubt, but we  
          
          
             shall agree very well.  
             Want. I was so joy'd, when I heard you were allotted  
          
          
             to be my Chamber-fellow,for I was so afraid of that clod  
             of dull Earth, the new come fellow; for it is reported  
             that she makes Conditions not to be with such a Cham-  
          
          
             ber fellow that sits up late, or hath much Company.  
          
          
             Wagt. The Princess says, she must be in the Cham-  
          
          
             ber of Mrs. Quick-wit.  
             Quick. She shall not lie with me, let her lie in the  
          
          
             Chamber of Mrs. Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Self. With me? By my troth, that shall not be, for  
             shall I that have been here this dozen years, have the  
          
          
             rubbish thrown into my Chamber?  
             Want. Why, then she must lie with the old Mother,  
             there is no other place.  F  Quick.   
          
          
          
             18 The PRESENCE. Act I  
          
          
             Quick.Why, the old Mother sits up as late with the  
             old Signiors of the Court, as any of her Daughters do  
             with the young Monsieurs. Exeunt Ladies.  
             Obs. I hope if there be no room for the young  
             Lady amongst Women, she will be forced to come to  
          
          
             us Men for a Lodging.  
          
          
             Mode. Faith, we shall quarrel as much, who shall  
             have her, as the Women do, to cast her out of their  
             Company.  
             Spend. I am of the Ladies mind, I would now wil-  
             lingly have her; for she appears with such a divine Pu-  
             rity, as if she would be apt to convert merom my  
             Debauchery, and trouble my Conscience with Re-  
          
          
             pentance. Exeunt.  
             SCENE VI.  
             Enter Quick-wit and Wagtail.  
             Quick-wit.  
          
          
              L Ady, I hear you have an admiring Servant.  
          
          
             Wagt. For God's sake Lady Quick-wit, tell me  
          
          
             who it is?  
             Quick. You know who it is.  
          
          
             Wagt. Nay, prithee tell me; in faith I know not who  
             it is.  
             Quick. You dissemble in making your self ignorant.  
             Wagt. In truth I do not know; wherefore prithee  
          
          
             tell me, for I long to know who it is.  Quick.   
          
          
             Scen.VI. The PRESENCE. 19  
             Quick. I hope your Servant has not put you into a  
          
          
             longing humour?  
          
          
             Wagt. No, but you have, and therefore tell me.  
             Quick. 'Tis reported, Monsieur Ape is your admiring  
          
          
             Servant.  
             Wagt. Truly Monsieur Ape is a very fine Person.  
             Quick. Indeed he wears fine Clothes.  
          
          
             Wagt. The truth is, he is a neat spruce Courtier.  
          
          
             Quick. He ought to be so, spending most of his time  
             in dressing and trimming himself.  
          
          
             Wagt. He is a very Civil Man to our Sex.  
          
          
             Quick. He is so, if it be a Civility to kiss the Ladies  
          
          
             Busks, Fans, Gloves, and the tails of their Gowns.  
             Wagt. He is a well-bred Gentleman.  
          
          
             Quick. Yes, if good breeding lies in the Heels, for he  
             dances well.  
             Wagt. He is an exact Courtier.  
          
          
             Quick. 'Tis true, for he Flatters and Complements.  
             Wagt. He is a great Scholar.  
          
          
             Quick. He is well read in Fashions, and studies new  
          
          
             Modes.  
          
          
             Wagt. He hath an Elegant speech.  
             Quick. And speaks in a Romancical stile.  
             Wagt. And he has a ready Wit.  
          
          
             Quick. To imitate Extravagancies.  
          
          
             Wagt. He is a Valiant Man.  
          
          
             Quick. To take foolish Women Prisoners.  
             Wagt. He is a Politick Man.  
          
          
              Quick.   
          
          
          
             20 The PRESENCE Act I.  
          
          
             Quick. He is so, in pretending to have more power  
             with the Emperor then he hath; by which means he  
             gets Clients to Fee him, and simple ignorant Men to  
             Bribe him, for which Fees and Bribes, they have fair  
             words and large promises, but not any performances.  
          
          
             Wagt. I perceive Monsieur Ape is not your admiring  
             Servant, you speak so spitefully of him.  
          
          
             Quick. It seems I am not his admirer, I speak so truly  
             of him.  
          
          
             Wagt. I must not hear any evil against my Servant  
             Monsieur Ape.  
          
          
             Quick. Then you must not hear him mentioned.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Self-conceit, with her Portrait.  
             Self. Quick-wit, I have been seeking you to shew you  
             my Portrait.  
          
          
             Quick. What Painter drew it?  
          
          
             Self. A Painter did not draw it, but a Poetical Lord  
             did write it.  
          
          
             Quick. So I perceive a Portrait is a Mode-Phrase for  
          
          
             a Character, or a Description; and a Portrait, Character  
          
          
             and Description of Particulars, signifies one and the  
          
          
             same thing.  
             Self. Yes, but Characters and Descriptions have been  
          
          
             so often used, writ and named, that the Readers are so  
             weary'd with those old fashioned names, as it keeps them  
          
          
             all from reading the matter or subject of such Writings.  
          
          
             Quick. So, then the word Portrait is to invite the  
             Readers to read it.  
          
          
              Self.   
             Scen VI. The PRESENCE. 21  
          
          
             Self. No doubt of that, and well, if the word Portrait  
          
          
             will perswade them to read it; but shall I read my Por-  
          
          
             trait to you?  
          
          
             Quick. Yes, I desire to hear a Portrait, for though I  
             have seen many Portraits, yet I have never heard them  
             speak.  
             Lady Self-conceit reads her Portrait.  
          
          
             Your Curls of Hair like Clouds, yet black as night;  
          
          
             Your Eyes as Stars do give a Sparkling light;  
          
          
             Your Forehead like the Heavens milky way;  
             Your Nose a hill of Snow in Valley lay;  
          
          
             Your Lips like Rosie-morn when th' Sun doth rise,  
          
          
             Shine on your Chin, as bright as he i'th' skies;  
          
          
             From whence the Beams dilated on your breast,  
          
          
             Do make a Torrid Zone 'tween East and West;  
          
          
             And those that do this Heav'nly Picture view,  
          
          
             Must needs confess 'twas only made for you.  
             Quick. Faith, this is like the Painter that drew a Rose  
             for a Woodcock.  
          
          
             Self. What, do you call me a Woodcock?  
          
          
             Quick. Why ? a Woodcock is a fine Bird,and good  
             Meat; but why did not this Portrait-maker draw or  
             describe you no farther then the breast?  
             Self. By reason many Persons Pictures are drawn no  
             farther.  
             Quick. It was a shrewd sign , he could similize no  
             farther.  
          
          
             Self. He could not go beyond the Heavens.  
              G  Quick.   
          
          
          
             22 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             Quick. In my opinion he has gone too great a Jour-  
          
          
             ney in going so far; for I believe it has made his Poeti-  
             cal feet, which I perceive to be diseased with the Gout,  
             too weary; for he has travel'd through the Ecliptick  
             line; but if he have crost the line, I think he must have  
             gone from South to North, a very cold Climate.  
          
          
             Self. I perceive you are spiteful at my Portrait, be-  
             cause you have not one made of you.  
          
          
             Quick. Can you blame me if I be spiteful to see you  
             Metamorphosed from a Terrestrial Body, to a Coelestial  
             Portrait.  
          
          
             Enter Observer and Conversant.  
          
          
             Obs. Ladies, how doth the Princess?  
          
          
             Quick. The Princess is very Melancholy,and it is fear'd  
             she will fall into a Consumption.  
          
          
             Self. But the Emperor to prevent it, will send for all  
             the Gentry and Nobility in the Empire to present them-  
             selves to the Princess, and whomsoever she likes, she  
             shall have.  
          
          
             Conv. But how if her Idea should prove a Married  
             Man?  
          
          
             Quick. The truth is, it distrubs the Thoughts of Mar-  
             ried Wives; for those that love their Husbands, are  
             afraid, and those that care not for their Husbands hope;  
             but all the Men are well pleased in hope of being Em-  
             peror, for you know the Princess is Heir to the Crown.  
          
          
             Enter Mode.  
             Mode. Lady, how doth the Princess?  
          
          
              Quick.   
             Scen. VI. The PRESENCE. 23  
             Quick. She is as all Lovers are, Melancholy.  
             Mode. Are all Lovers Melancholy?  
             Quick. Yes, when they cannot enjoy their Beloved;  
             and her Beloved is but a shadow, which the more it  
             is follow'd,the farther it flies; wherefore she is Melancholy,  
          
          
             as being despised.  
          
          
             Self-conceit sighs.  
             Quick. What makes you sigh?  
             Self. Faith, because I am not a Princess, to have my  
             choice of all the Men in the Empire.  
             Quick. I would not be a Princess upon that condi-  
             tion, for I should be as much troubled to chuse, as to  
             refuse.  
             Self. That is a sign you love Men well.  
             Quick. Why say you so?  
             Self. Because you express your trouble, that you  
             should desire more then one, and be loth to deny any.  
             Enter a Fool.  
             Fool. Oh Ladies, Oh the strange sights that I have  
             seen! the monstrous strange sights that I have seen!  
             Quick. What monstrous sights have you seen?  
             Fool. Why, I have seen strange Monsters!  
             Quick. What Monsters?  
             Fool. I saw Men with strange Heads, and as strange  
             Bodies; for they had the speech of Men, and the up-  
             right shape of Men, and yet were partly like as other  
             Creatures; for one Man had an Asses head, and his  
             body Iras like a Coolie; another Man had a Jack-a-  
              napes-   
          
          
          
             24 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
          
          
             napes-head, but all his body was like a Baboon, and he  
          
          
             shew'd tricks, as Jack-a-napes and Baboons use to do;  
          
          
             another Man had a Swines head, and all his body was  
          
          
             like a Goat ; Another had a head like a Stag, with a  
             large pair of branched Horns, and all his body was  
             featur'd like a Woodcock, and his arms were fea-  
             ther'd as a Woodcocks wings, but he could not fly  
             from his disgrace, for his Horned head did hinder the  
             flight of his Wings; Then I saw a Woman that was  
             not like a Mare-Maid, for Mare-Maids are like Wo-  
             men from the head to the waste, and from the waste like  
             a Fish; but this Woman was like a Fish from the head  
          
          
             to the waste, and from the waste like a Beast; so that  
          
          
             she was a Batons rompus; Another Woman had the eyes  
             of a Crocodile, but her body was like a changeable  
             Cameleon; and many other Monstrous Creatures did  
             I see.  
             Self. Where did you see those Monsters?  
             Fool. Where they are to be seen.  
             Self. Where is that ?  
             Fool. In Dreams, when I was asleep.  
             Quick. It seems you have a Fool's head that dreams  
             such fantastical Dreams.  
             Fool. The wisest and gravest heads that are,do dream  
             such Dreams; for a Philosopher's head hath butter-flies  
             Dreams; and a Politician, although he has a Foxes  
             head when he is awake, yet he has but an Asse's head  
             when he sleeps.  
          
          
              Quick.   
          
          
             Scen. VI. The PRESENCE. 25  
          
          
             Quick. You are a Knave awake, and a Fool asleep.  
          
          
             Fool. Then I am a wise Man.  
             Quick. Is a Knave a wise Man?  
          
          
             Fool. According to the foolishness of the World he  
             is; for if the World of Mankind, which is the most  
             part, were not Fools, Knaves could not cozen them;  
             and those are wiser that deceive, then those that are de-  
             ceived; at least, they are accounted so by those Fools  
             they have deceived.  
          
          
             Self. You speak like an Ass.  
          
          
             Fool. If I speak like Balaam's Ass, I speak wisely;  
             but truly Ladies I had a pleasant Dream.  
          
          
             Quick. What Dream was that?  
             Fool. I dream'd that all the Princess Maids of Honour  
             did dance about me, and after that they did all kiss me,  
             which was very pleasant to me; for though they danced  
          
          
             like Apes, they kissed like Courtisans.  
          
          
             Quick. Out, you Rogue, do you say we kiss like  
             Courtisans.  
             Fool. Why all Women kiss alike, ask the Gentlemen.  
             Exit Fool.  
          
          
             Self. Come Quick-wit, let us go and see how the  
          
          
             Princess doth. Exeunt.  
             Obs. The Ladies are much concerned for the Princess  
          
          
             Sickness.  
          
          
             Mode. I believe they are all troubled with that Di-  
             sease, although they are more crafty to conceal it.  
          
          
             Conv. The Emperor is very strict to the Princess, so  
              H   that   
          
          
          
             26 The PRESENCE. Act I.  
             that he will not suffer any Man to come near her but  
             Mimick the fool; and he is only suffered to divert her  
             Melancholy.  
          
          
             Obs. He is more a Knave then a Fool; wherefore  
             he might more safely have trusted the wisest Man in  
             the Kingdom.  
          
          
             SCENE VII.  
             The Princess lies upon a Couch as sick, and her eyes shut.  
          
          
             Soft Musick is heard, and a Song sung.  
             You God of Sleep send Dreams for to restore  
             The Preincess mind to be as 'twas before;  
             Or else yon other Gods that dwell above,  
             Cause her to dream of a Seraphick Love:  
             Let not her Mortal Soul so cloud the Light  
             Of her Immortal Soul that shines so bright.  
             Cast out the vain Idea from her brain,  
             That nothing of that Figure may remain.  
          
          
             After this, the Fool standing at the Door, sings a part of  
          
          
             an Old Ballet; as follows.  
          
          
             This long seven years and more,have I still lov'd thee,  
          
          
             Do then my joy restore, fair Lady pity me,  
             Pity my grievous pains long suffer'd for thy sake,  
             Which will not let me rest, for no rest can I take:  
              Fair   
          
          
             Scen. VII. The PRESENCE. 27  
          
          
             Fair Lady pity me, do not my Suit deny,  
             O yield me some relief that shall for sorrow die.  
             How can I pity thee, the Lady then repli'd,  
             I am no Match for thee, thy Suit must be deny'd;  
             I am of Royal blood, thou of a mean degree,  
             It stands not for my Good that I should Marry thee;  
             This Answer oft I had, which struck my heart full deep,  
             And on my bed full soft did I lie down and weep.  
             Singing the last Verse, the Fool enters, and the Princess  
             awakes.  
             Prin. How dare you disturb me with your Foolery?  
             Fool. Fools never disturb,for we are made for Laugh-  
          
          
             ter, not for anger.  
             Prin. Carry away the Fool to the Porters Lodge,  
             and let him be soundly whipt.  
             Fool. No, carry the Princess to the Emperors Cham-  
             ber, and let her there be whipt, for she is more Fool  
             then I; for she is in love with a Dream, and I am in  
             love with a Princess; the truth is, I have a great desire  
             to be an Emperor, and you had better love a Fool  
             then a Shadow.  
             Prin. In truth I will tell the Emperor my Father.  
             Fool. I faith, that will not help you; for he is wise,  
          
          
             and knows I am the fittest Match for you; for he knows  
          
          
             that when two Fools Marry, they make but one Fool;  
             and he will chuse rather to have but one Fool then two;  
          
          
             and when we are Married we shall make one grand Fool,  
             and that will amount,and be as much as indifferently wise.  
          
          
              Prin.   
          
          
          
             28 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Prin. I will have your Tongue cut out of your  
             Head.  
          
          
             Fool. You will as soon cut off my Head; but let  
          
          
             me tell you, You shall not; nay by'r Lady, you must  
          
          
             not be in this humour, the Emperor commands it, as  
             also that you shall come to him. Exeunt Omnes.  
          
          
             ACT II. SCENE I.  
             Enter Spend-all in a fine Suit of Clothes, meeting Con-  
          
          
             versant.  
          
          
             Conversant.  
              J Upiter bless us! how fine and brave you are, in a rich  
             Suit of Clothes; is this your Wedding day?  
             Spend. No, this day is not my Wedding day; but this  
             Suit is my Wooing-Suit, for I am going to Woo an  
             old Lady, who is very Rich.  
             Conv. Is she Wise?  
          
          
             Spend. I hope not, for if she were, she would never  
          
          
             grant my Suit; but if she be a Fool, as I hope she is,  
          
          
             then Youth and Bravery will win her.  
             Conv. And the more sprightly, lively, and fantastical  
          
          
             you appear, the better the old Lady will like you.  
          
          
             Spend. I believe you; but I doubt that the sight of  
          
          
             the old Lady will put me into so dull and Melancholy  
             a humour, as I shall not please her.  
             Conv. Imagine her a young Beauty.  
          
          
              Spend.   
             Scen. I. The PRESENCE. 29  
          
          
             Spend. I cannot imagine her a young Beauty, when  
             I see her; for Imagination works only upon absent  
             Objects.  
          
          
             Conv. Then think her your Reverend Grand-Dame.  
          
          
             Spend. That will make me think of death, she being  
          
          
             dead.  
             Conv. Nay faith, she will rather make you think of a  
          
          
             Resurrection.  
             Spend. Can I think an old wrinkled Woman, a glo-  
             rified body?  
             Conv. I forgot the Glory, I only thought of  
             Life; but however, you may think her a Saint.  
             Spend. That I cannot, if she marry me, a young, vain,  
             deboist Man, which is, a Sinner.  
             Conv. Imagine she Marries you to convert you from  
          
          
             Evil to Good.  
          
          
             Spend. Nay faith, she would sooner pervert me, were  
             I good, to evil; but were she a wise, reverend, virtuous  
             aged Woman, I could love her better then a wanton  
             young Filly ; also, I should be ruled and govern'd by  
             her experienced advice and counsel; but those ancient  
             Women that are so, will not Marry a wild, vain  
             young Man.  
          
          
             Conv. There is not any thing that can rule, advise,  
          
          
             or govern you, but Time.  
             Spend. Why,an ancient Woman is Time;for though  
             she be not old Father Time, yet she is old Mother  
          
          
             Time.  
          
          
              I  Conv.   
          
          
          
             30 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Conv. Well, go to the old Lady, woo her, win her,  
             and Marry her; for if you will wink, or shut your eyes,  
             she will be as pleasing as a young Wife.  
          
          
             Spend. Would you have me a blind Wooer, and a  
             blind Husband?  
          
          
             Conv. It would be happy for some Husbands if they  
             were blind, that they might not see their own disgrace;  
             for many a Husband sees his Neighbour in bed with  
          
          
             his Wife; and it would be great wisdom in old  
          
          
             Women, if they would, or must of necessity, Marry a  
             young Man, to Marry a blind young Man, that he  
          
          
             might not see her decays, ruines and wrinkles.  
          
          
             Spend. Well, I will go and try if I can perswade this  
          
          
             old Lady to Marry me.  
          
          
             Conv. Do so, for it may become a fashion for young  
             Men to Marry old Women.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Bashful, Spend-all addresses himself to her.  
          
          
             Spend. Lady, I was a while since in the Privy Cham-  
             ber, where my eyes did search for you, but they could  
             not single you out from the rest of the Ladies.  
          
          
             Bash. It seems that either you were blind, or that I  
             had not any Beauty.  
          
          
             Spend. The Ladies in Court, when they stand  
             close together, are like the Heaven's milky way; for the  
             number of Stars appears like a thick white stream, so  
             as no particular Star can be discerned.  
          
          
             Bash. I had rather be a Meteor singly alone, then a  
             Star in a Crowd.  
          
          
             Exit.  
             Enter  
          
          
             Scen I. The PRESENCE. 31  
             Enter Lady Quick-wit.  
             Spend. Lady, will you give me leave to be your  
          
          
             admiring Servant?  
             Quick. The truth is, we Ladies in Court have to  
             many Courting-Servants, that we know not how to  
          
          
             govern them.  
          
          
             Spend. I shall be govern'd easily; for I will watch  
             your looks with admiration, listen to your words with  
             great attention, study your thoughts with serious Con-  
             templation, and obey all your Commands with pious  
             devotion.  
          
          
             Quick. Admiration dazles the sight, sight stops the  
             hearing, hearing hinders the thinking, and action is an  
             enemy to study.  
          
          
             Spend. You have so much Wit, Lady, that your Wit  
             is able to govern the whole World.  
          
          
             Quick. Wit can easier make a VVorld, then govern a  
             VVorld; for VVit is a better architect then Governor;  
             in truth VVit cannot rule it self; for VVit is ruled by  
             Judgment; and thus by mispraising VVit, you have  
          
          
             done Judgment wrong.  
             Exit Quickwit.  
             Spend. Faith, I am an unfortunate Man in Court-  
          
          
             ships.  
          
          
             Conv. That is, because you Complement with the  
             Ladies, that love to have Men talk to them  
          
          
             rudely.  
             Spend. VVell, I will try my own way of Court-  
          
          
             ship once more, if I can converse with any of them  
          
          
             again.  
             Conv.  
          
          
          
             32 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Conv. Then you shall never win their favours.  
             Enter Lady Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Spend. Lady, you are finer drest then any Lady in  
          
          
             the Court.  
          
          
             Self. 'Tis a sign I want Beauty, that I am forced to  
          
          
             use the art of dressing; and you the flattery of Com-  
             mendations, seeing I had not Beauty worthy of a true  
             praise.  
          
          
             Spend. The Court is the Sphere of Beauty, Lady.  
          
          
             Self. And Men are Beauties Gazers.  
             Spend. Men are Love's Astronomers, Lady.  
          
          
             Self. And what new Star-like Beauty have you  
          
          
             found out?  
             Spend. You, Lady.  
             Exit Self-conceit without Answering.  
             Spend. Oh happy Man that I am, for I am a Con-  
             queror.  
             Conv. Of what are you a Conqueror, of Wit?  
             Spend. No of Love; for silence gives consent.  
             Conv. But you did not woo her to love.  
             Spend. Not woo her! prithee what have I been  
             speaking all this while?  
             Conv. VVhy, you have been Complementing.  
             Spend. 'Tis true, and Complements are Lovers  
             VVooings.  
             Conv. But you forget the old Lady; you were go-  
             ing to woo before you saw these young Ladies.  
          
          
             Spend. Hang Old Ladies, give me a Young Lady.  
          
          
              Conv.   
          
          
             Scen II. The PRESENCE. 33  
          
          
             Conv. But consider, the old Lady is rich.  
          
          
             Spend. 'Tis true, and I want wealth; wherefore I'le  
             go a wooing to the old Lady, and leave my heart  
             with the young Ladies; but now I think better of it;  
             I will not go, for I believe you stay here to watch a  
             time, to get one of these young Beauties alone.  
          
          
             Conv. No, no, I will stay here to be an Agent in  
             love, for you.  
          
          
             Spend. I desire no such Agent as you; for you are  
             a subtile, slie Gentleman; you will take your time and  
             opportunity; besides, you have Lands and Money,  
             which will winn a young Lady sooner, then fine  
             Clothes and Complements will do.  
          
          
             Conv. Prithee be not jealous; for young Ladies  
             are not so wise as to love prudently.  
          
          
             Spend. What a Pox should you dwell in this  
             Room, if it were not for some such design?  
             Conv. I stay here to observe Humours, hear Wit, and  
          
          
             to see Beauties.  
          
          
             Spend. And not to make Love?  
          
          
             Conv. No.  
          
          
             Spend. If it be so, then, prithee, praise me to the  
             young Ladies.  
          
          
             Conv. I will, I will.  
          
          
             Spend. Do not forget any of my good parts.  
          
          
             Conv. I cannot forget them; for I do not remem-  
          
          
             ber any you have.  
             Exit Spend-all.  
              K  Enter   
          
          
          
             34 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Enter Observer.  
          
          
             Conv. Observer, I wonder you will be absent out of  
             this Room, in regard you only come to observe the  
          
          
             Court beauties and Court-wits.  
             Observ. Faith, I became tired and wearied of the ob-  
             servations in this Room, the Presence, and so I went  
             into the Privy-Chamber to observe the Emperor.  
             Conv. And how did he appear?  
             Observ. He did appear in Majesty, as far beyond  
             his Royalty, as his Royalty appears above his meanest  
             Subjects.  
             Conv. Then he appear'd as a God.  
             Observ. Indeed he appear'd above what is mortal.  
             Conv. And did you hear him speak?  
             Observ. Yes; and he was in so witty a vein, that my  
             Hearing was (as if it were) tyed to his speech, and my  
          
          
             Mind so fill'd with delight, that I had not power to  
          
          
             stir from the place I stood, but both my body and  
             mind were (as 'twere) fixt to a Deitical Centre.  
          
          
             Conv. I perceive, that you, instead of an Observer,  
             are become a Courtier; and now you have learn'd to  
             flatter.  
          
          
             Obs. Not so, for by Heav'n I speak the truth of my  
             thoughts and belief; for though I do not believe the  
             Emperor to be a God, yet God and Nature have made,  
             and endued him, to be above all other Men; for name  
             me any other Prince or private Man in this age, that has  
          
          
             that sweet Nature, excellent Qualities, experienced  
          
          
              Know-   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 35  
             Knowledg, clear Understanding, upright Justice, Hero-  
          
          
             ick Courage, free Generosity, and divine Clemency as  
          
          
             he has; and if you match him in all the known World,  
             proclaim me a Fool and a Lyar, which is to be a Flatterer,  
             a Vice I hate.  
             Conv. I confess, there are two Reasons that per-  
             swade me to be of your mind; the first is, That I have  
             observed the same in the Emperor; the second is, That  
             I did never know you to flatter, dissemble, or speak  
             false in my life; for you are so infinitely proud, that you  
             will not descend so low as to flatter, or be so humble  
             in praises, were it to God himself.  
             Obs. God is too Omnipotent for Praise, and our  
             Emperor too Heroick and truly Royal for Flattery; so  
             that the one is not a subject for praise, nor the other for  
             Flattery.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Quick-wit, Self-conceit, Wanton and  
             Wagtail.  
             Self-conceit.  
              I  Will tell you a Wonder.  
             Quick. What Wonder?  
             Self. Why, I found Mrs. Bashful alone with a Man.  
             Quick. Why, that's no wonder to see a Man and a  
              Wo-   
          
          
          
             36 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Woman alone, especially in the Court ; for we watch  
             all opportunities, upon every occasion, to be so.  
          
          
             Self. But 'tis a wonder to see Bashful alone with a  
             Man, and abroad too; for she shuns Men, as she would  
             do Serpents, and locks her Chamber-doors against them,  
             and accounts it a crime to be seen undress'd , and a sin  
             not to be forgiven, to be seen in bed.  
          
          
             Quick. VVhy, she was neither in bed, nor undrest, I  
             suppose.  
          
          
             Self. No, she was at Madam Civilities house, and  
             'tis to be hoped she will come to it in time, when she has  
             so much wit, as to hold a Discourse.  
             Want. She hold a Discourse! she wants the Capacity,  
          
          
             she wants the Capacity.  
          
          
             Wagt. Nay, you can give the best relation or descrip-  
          
          
             tion of her; for you were her bed-fellow.  
          
          
             Self. Prithee what is she? a meer Mope; doth she never  
             speak or discourse to you?  
          
          
             Want. You shall judge, whether she doth or not; for  
             she will never ask a question, nor make a doubt, nor  
             give her opinion upon any thing.  
          
          
             Enter Bashful.  
          
          
             Quick. Come poor Bashful, there is none makes  
             much of thee.  
          
          
             Bash. I should be loth to be made much of, after the  
             Court-fashion.  
             Wagt. After the Court-fashion! how is that? ex-  
             press it, express it.  
              Bash.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The PRESENCE. 37  
          
          
             Bash. Nay, you can express it best.  
             Quick. Faith, I pity thee for having no Servant.  
             Bash. I had rather be pitied for having no Servant,  
          
          
             then censured for having too many.  
          
          
             Self. If you be a good Girl, and do as the rest of your  
             Honourable Sisters, or as all Court-Ladies do, I will  
             send you some of my worn Servants to Court you.  
          
          
             Bash. No, pray keep them as a store, lest you  
             should want your self. Exit Bashful.  
          
          
             Self. Faith, she is fitter for a Nunnery, then a  
             Court.  
          
          
             Quick. But I observe the Court has improved her  
          
          
             Wit.  
             Want. Nay, the Court is the only Place to make  
             Fools, Wits.  
          
          
             Quick. Or Wits, Fools. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
             Enter Spend-all, and Conversant.  
          
          
             Conversant.  
              M Onsieur Spend-all, how do you prosper in your  
             old Lady's affection?  
             Spend. Faith, more prosperously then I desire.  
             Conv. Would not you willingly enjoy her.  
             Spend. Yes her Wealth, but not her Person.  
             Conv. You must take the worse with the better; for  
              L  I   
          
          
          
             28 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             I have observed, that Fortune, Fate, Nature, and the  
             Gods, mix Good and Evil, Pleasure and Discontent,  
             Health and Sickness together.  
          
          
             Spend. I confess there is not any thing perfect, or  
             pure in Nature; but God be praised in his Creatures, and  
             all things.  
          
          
             Conv. Then God be praised for the love of the old  
             Lady to you.  
          
          
             Spend. I have much strife with my self to give prai-  
             ses for her; but I desire and should give thanks to see  
             some of the young Ladies, that I might converse with  
             them to revive me from death to life, from hate to love.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Quick-wit.  
          
          
             Spend. Lady, you are the life of the Court.  
          
          
             Quick. And the Court is the life of me, Sir.  
          
          
             Spend. Your Eyes give light to all the beholders.  
          
          
             Quick. I had rather my wit could give life to all the  
             Hearers.  
          
          
             Spend. But your Beauty doth excell all the Beauties  
             in the Court.  
          
          
             Quick. Until you converse with another Lady, and  
             then her Beauty doth as far excell mine, as mine at this  
             present doth excell others.  
          
          
             Spend. Indeed, Beauty appears, best in Conversation.  
          
          
             Quick. And worse with often viewing.  
             Spend. No more then the light of the Sun doth.  
          
          
             Quick. The more the Sun is gaz'd upon, the blinder  
          
          
             the sight is.  
              Spend   
          
          
             Scen. III. The PRESENCE. 39  
          
          
             Spend. That is the reason the splendor of the Sun's  
             light doth over-power the sight.  
             Quick. Why, then the splendor puts out the sight of  
             his light, which buries his glory in the darkness of blind-  
             ness; and if my Beauty doth the like, I am sorry for  
             it; for I would not have such a Beauty as digs its own  
             grave in the Eyes of its admirers; but as a moderate Light,  
             so moderate a Beauty pleases the sight best. Exit Quick-wit.  
             Enter Lady Self-conceit.  
             Spend. Lady, there is not any Man doth more admire  
             you, then I.  
             Self. If I have Merit, you ought to give Merit its  
             due; and if I am worthy of admiration, I am bound  
             to the Gods and Nature for their favours, and not to  
             you for your Praises.  
          
          
             Spend. But all men do neither honour, nor admire  
             what is worthy of either.  
          
          
             Self. If they do not, the injury is to Nature and  
          
          
             the Gods.  
             Exit Self-conceit.  
             Conv. Faith, Spend-all, your Complements will not  
             serve you in Love-matters.  
             Spend. I confess they are not fortunate.  
             Enter Lady Bashful.  
          
          
             Spend. Madam, I wonder you should hide any part  
          
          
             of your Face with Black-patches, your Face being fair  
             and lovely.  
          
          
             Bashf. Black-patches curiously cut and stuck upon  
          
          
              the   
          
          
          
             40 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             he Face, are like wise Sentences in a Speech, they give  
             Grace and Lustre.  
             Enter Self-conceit.  
             Self. Lady Bashful, I have been seeking you all the Court  
             over, in every Lodging, and I could not find you.  
             Bashf. You see, I am not lost, for here I am; but  
             where's the Lady Quickwit?  
             Self. She is within, and asks for you.  
             Enter Quickwit.  
             Quick. O! it is so cold! so very cold, as it is able to  
             freeze all the Lovers hearts in the Court and City!  
             Conv. And not in the Country, Lady?  
             Quick. O no, for those that dwell in the Country,  
             make such great Blazing-fires, as they thaw Cold, and  
             heat Love.  
             Conv. Love doth not require Heat, for it is sufficiently  
             hot of it self.  
             Quick. Yes, when it is in the Fever, in which Love most  
             commonly dies: But come Ladies, shall we go to  
             Supper?  
             Spend. Conversant, tell Lady Quick-wit, I am in Love  
             with her.  
             Conv. Lady, Monsieur Spend-all sayes, he is in Love  
             with you.  
             Quick. I hate to hear of Love by a Second, it seems  
             lo like a Challenge. Exeunt all the Ladies.  
             Spend. Faith, Court-Ladies have quick Wits.  
             Conv. They are bred to answer, they are so often  
              spoke   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The PRESENCE. 41  
          
          
             Scen. IV. The P R E S E N C E. 41  
          
          
             spoke to, but of all the Ladies, I confess, I like the Lady  
             Quick-wit.  
          
          
             Spend. Faith, I like them all so well, I know not  
          
          
             which to like best; and I wish with all my heart, they  
          
          
             all would like me as well as my old Lady doth; Oh,  
          
          
             what a happy Man should I be, for I should have  
             variety of Pleasures! Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
             Enter Wagtail, and Wanton.  
          
          
             Wanton.  
              T He Lord of Loyalt sent me a merry Letter to day;  
             and in the Letter, a Copy of Verses, desiring me to  
             give them to Madam Bashful.  
             Wagt. Faith, those Verses will make her so conceited  
             with her self, that she will be so proud, as to think her  
             self the only she in the Court; wherefore, let me advise  
             you not to give them her.  
             Want. But what shall I say to the Lord of Loyalty,  
             if he should ask me, whether I had given them to  
             her.  
             Wagt. Put it off with Rallery.  
             Enter the Mother, and Observer.  
             Want. Mother, where is your Daughter Bashful,  
             she is not here to attend the Princess coming  
             forth?  
              M  Moth.   
          
          
          
             42 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Moth. She is gone abroad.  
          
          
             Wagt. Yes, to meet the Lord Loyalty.  
          
          
             Want. Indeed Mother, you are too blame, to let your  
             Daughters go abroad without you; and if the Princess  
             should know of it, she would be very angry.  
          
          
             Moth. Why, she ask'd the Princess leave.  
          
          
             Wagt. It is a shame she should be abroad without the  
             Mother; it is enough to disgrace all the Sister-hood; and  
             therefore for Juno's sake, send for her home.  
          
          
             Observ. Why Ladies, I have known the Princess's  
             Maids many times to go abroad without the Mother,  
             and no disgrace to their Honour.  
          
          
             Want. But not to meet such Company as she is gone  
             to, for all the Kingdom knows, the Lord of Loyal-  
             ty is none of the chastest men; and he courts her for  
             her Youth and Beauty; 'tis not likely he will marry her;  
             for he loves Variety too well, to tie himself to one.  
             Observ. Truly I am of that opinion; but she is so Ver-  
             tuous, she cannot be corrupted.  
          
          
             Enter Self-conceit.  
             Self. Mother, the Princess is very angry that Mada-  
             moisel Bashful is gone abroad without you; she says,  
             that though she gave her leave to go abroad, she thought  
             she had so much discretion as to take the Mother along  
             with her; but you must send for her presently.  
             Want. Go, go, quickly Mother, quickly.  
             Wagt. I will go for her.  
          
          
             Want. Nay, I will go for her.  
          
          
              Self.   
          
          
             Scen V. The PRESENCE. 43  
          
          
             Self. Nay, pray stay, and let the Mother go her  
             self.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
             Enter Observer, Conversant.  
          
          
             Conversant.  
          
          
              M Onsieur Observer, I heard a Lady say, you were  
          
          
             a Fool.  
          
          
             Obs. Ladies may say what they please.  
          
          
             Conv. But it seems, you have not pleased her, that  
          
          
             she calls you Fool.  
             Obs. It seems I have not courted her.  
             Conv. Are Ladies never pleas'd but when they are  
             Courted?  
          
          
             Obs. No Faith; for then they think they are not  
          
          
             thought Handsom.  
             Conv. Indeed Women delight in their Beauties.  
             Obs. Not unless men admire their Beauties; for they  
             are delighted with their Beauties, for the delight of  
             Courtship; Beauty gets them Suiters; for were they  
             ill-favoured, they would never be wooed.  
             Conv. but when they are wooed, they are not pre-  
             sently wonne.  
             Obs. Yes Faith, they are wonne before they be woo-  
             ed; and being wooed, they presently yield.  
             Conv. The truth is, Women have kind natures.  
              Obs.   
          
          
          
             44 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Obs. Not so kind as willing.  
             Conv. Women are Loving-creatures.  
             Obs. Yes, they are Self-lovers.  
             Conv. Not when they give themselves to men.  
          
          
             Obs. They give themselves to men, because men  
          
          
             should give themselves to them.  
             Conv. So they love men out of self-interest.  
             Obs. No doubt of it.  
          
          
             Conv. You are an unjust Man.  
          
          
             Obs. In what?  
          
          
             Conv. In dispraising all the Sex out of a displeasure  
             to one Woman, for calling you Fool.  
          
          
             Obs. I should not only be call'd a fool, but should  
             prove my self one, if I should regard what Wo-  
             men say.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Wedlock.  
          
          
             Conv. Monsieur Wedlock, how doth you Lady?  
             Wedl. She is groaning and complaining.  
             Conv. What is she in labour?  
          
          
             Wedl. No, but she is breeding.  
          
          
             Conv. Monsieur Spend-all, I hear you are entring  
             into the Matrimonial Order.  
          
          
             Spend. Yes, Faith, I am going into the Order of  
          
          
             Cuckolds, Wittals, or Fools.  
          
          
             Obs. Why, Marriage is an honourable. Order.  
          
          
             Spend. The Order is as it proves; but if you think  
             it so honourable, why will not you be one of this  
          
          
             Matrimonial Order?  
              Obs.   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 45  
          
          
             Obs. Because I am not ambitious of such Honours;  
             but is the Lady you are to Marry very beautiful,  
          
          
             Monsieur Spend-all?  
             Spend. No, but she is Rich.  
             Wedl. Is she of honourable birth?  
          
          
             Spend. No, but she is Rich.  
          
          
             Wedl. Is she well bred?  
          
          
             Spend. No, but she is Rich.  
          
          
             Wedl. Is she wise?  
          
          
             Spend. No, but she is Rich.  
          
          
             Wedl. Do you Marry only for Riches?  
          
          
             Spend. Yes; for Necessity forces me to Marry an ill-  
             favoured, foolish, old doting Woman.  
          
          
             Wedl. Much good may she do you.  
          
          
             Spend. Nay faith, she will not do me any good, un-  
             less she would die soon; but her Wealth will do me  
             much good, and I shall prove an excellent Husband to  
             her Riches.  
          
          
             Obs. You are so deboist and wild, that you cannot be  
             a good Husband to any thing.  
          
          
             Spend. But I shall; for when I am so rich, as to have  
             wherewithal to spend, I shall then be so thrifty as to  
             spare; for it is to be observed, That Rich Men for  
             the most part are miserable and covetous, when those  
             that have but little, spend all they have, or can get.  
          
          
             Obs. Pray bring me to visit this old foolish Lady  
             you are to Marry.  
          
          
             Spend. You must pardon me; if she were wise and  
          
          
              N  young,   
          
          
          
             46 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             young, I would let you see her; but being old and foo-  
             lish, I dare not, lest you should entice her from me; for  
             Old Women are more unconstant than Young; and be-  
             ing foolish, she will be so various, that her mind may  
             change like the wind.  
          
          
             Obs. You may trust me, were she young, beautiful,  
             chast, honourable, well-bred, witty and rich; for I will  
             never Marry.  
          
          
             Spend. Yes, if you could get a Wife, with all these  
             Excellencies.  
          
          
             Obs. I would not Marry, could I get a Wife with  
          
          
             all those fore-mentioned Excellencies, as you call them;  
          
          
             for were she young, she would want discretion, for want  
          
          
             of Experience; were she beautiful, she would make me  
             jealous, for Beauty is Courted; were she honoured with  
             title, she would strive to rule, and would not be ruled;  
             were she that which is named good breeding, which is  
             to Fiddle, Dance, Sing, and speak divers Languages, and  
             to know the Female and Masculine Genders in Langua-  
             ges, she would Gossip abroad, and seek out Company,  
             and be at all Publick Meetings, to shew her breeding; if  
             she have Wit, she will be always talking, and always  
             opposing, to prove her Wit; if she be cast, she will  
             be proud; if she be fruitful, she will be sickly and fro-  
             ward; if she be rich, she will spend much, because she  
             brought much, and in the end will make me poorer  
             then I am; and on the other side, were she old, I should  
             not imbrace her; were she ill-favoured, I should have an  
          
          
              aver-   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 47  
          
          
             aversion against her; were she of mean birth, and ill  
             breeding, I should be asham'd of her; were she a fool,  
             I should not regard her; were she poor, I should despise  
          
          
             her; were she false, I should part from her.  
          
          
             Spend. Well, Monsieur Observer, since you will nei-  
             ther Marry old, nor young, handsome, nor ill-favoured,  
             chast nor wanton, mean nor honourable, foolish nor  
             wise, poor nor rich, but are resolved to live a Batchellor,  
             I will bring you to be acquainted with my old Mistress,  
             that must be my old Wife, and Mr. Wedlock will bring  
             you acquianted with his young Wife.  
          
          
             Wedl. By my faith, but I will not.  
          
          
             Spend. No, why?  
             Wedl. Because he doth not declare he will not make  
             Courtships to Wives, though he declares he will not  
             have a Wife; and unless he declare and profess, he will  
             not make love to other Men's Wives, I will not bring  
             him acquainted with my Wife.  
          
          
             Spend. Why, do you mistrust your Wife?  
          
          
             Wedl. No, but I mistrust him; and were I sure my  
             Wife would not yield, yet I do not love she should be  
             tempted: But howsoever, to keep a Wife safe, is, to keep  
             her close from Courtships, and from Masculine Ac-  
             quaintance.  
          
          
             Conv. But Women will get liberty one way or  
             other, if they have a wanton mind, and desire change.  
          
          
             Wedl. Yet it is the part of a wise Husband to do  
             his endeavour to keep her honest.  
              Obs.   
          
          
          
             48 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Obs. VVell, I will neither visit Monsieur Spend-all's  
             old Mistress, nor your young VVife; but I'le go with  
             you to a merry Meeting, where I suppose, there will  
             be those Women that will better please me, then the  
             old Woman, and earlier be enjoyed then your young  
             Wife; wherefore, if you will go, Gentlemen, I will pre-  
             sent you a Supper.  
          
          
             Spend. If you will present us with Mistresses, we will  
             go with you.  
          
          
             Obs. They will present themselves.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Mode to the rest.  
          
          
             Spend. Monsieur Mode, it is reported, that you have  
             the art to Court two or three Mistresses at on time;  
             which if you have, I shall desire to be your Scholar,  
             for I could never be in the favour of two Mistresses at  
             one time; for the Courting of one lost me the other,  
             and those I lose, become my Enemies.  
          
          
             Mode. He is a poor Man that hath but one Mistress;  
             and he is a fool in Courtship, that cannot Court half  
             a dozen Mistresses at one time.  
          
          
             Spend. So, by this you call me a poor fool.  
          
          
             Mode. If you were not a fool, you would not desire  
             to be my Scholar; and if you were not poor, you  
             would not desire more then you have.  
          
          
             Spend. Then make me wiser and richer.  
          
          
             Mode. Would you be wiser for profit, or wiser for  
          
          
             pleasure.  
          
          
             Spend. For pleasure!  
          
          
              Mode.   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 49  
             Mode. Would you be richer for Wealth, or richer  
          
          
             for Honour, or richer in a number of Mistresses?  
             Spend. Richer in a number of Mistresses.  
             Mode. Then be bold, rude, and vain, talk much with-  
          
          
             out sense, swear much without cause, brag much with-  
          
          
             out reason, accoutre your self fantastically, behave  
          
          
             your self carelesly, and imploy time idly; and be sure  
             you raile of all Women generally, but praise every  
             particular one, but so as in a general way, as some for  
             one thing, and some for another, as you shall think  
          
          
             best, by which you will keep them all in hopes; for if  
          
          
             you should praise only one, that one will be too proud,  
          
          
             and then disdain you, and the rest through dispair will  
          
          
             hate you; also in your actions you must behave your  
             self generally, as in a carless way, dividing your Court-  
             ships amongst them all, as to kiss one Woman's hand,  
          
          
             another's neck, a third Woman's lips, embrace a  
          
          
             fourth, rally with a fifth, and bed with the sixth; and  
             after this manner you may Court twenty Mistresses at  
             least at one time, and serve your self in private with them  
             all one after another; for though you may Court many  
             Mistresses at one time in publick, yet in private you  
             must have but one at a time, and she will believe, or at  
             least make her self believe, she is the only she that is  
             beloved.  
          
          
             Spend. I will follow your Instruction; and if I thrive,  
             I will give you thanks.  
          
          
             Mode. But if you be not ingenious, and well  
          
          
              O  practised,   
          
          
          
             50 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             practised, my Instructions will do you but little good;  
             for you may be like Players, that have excellent  
             parts, and spoile them in the Acting; or like a Mini-  
          
          
             ster that chuses a good Text, and wants Oratory to  
             preach of it; or you may be like a bungling Taylor  
          
          
             that spoiles a fine Suit of Clothes with ill making: But  
             if you will thrive, you must be of many Professions;  
             and if you will be a Master of Courtship, you must be  
             learned in the Liberal Arts and Sciences; you must  
             be an Astrologer to foresee your Times, and their  
             Times; an Astronomer to find out their Humours; a  
             Cosmographer to measure their Capacities; a Philoso-  
             pher, to pierce into their Natures and Dispositions; a  
             Logician, to make their Vanities and Vices appear  
             Vertues; an Arithmetician, to number their Praises,  
             and cipher their Follies; and a Mathematician to draw  
             them to your desires and delights.  
             Spend. I shall do my best endeavour ; but I fear that  
             most Women are not worth so much pains, study and  
             practice.  
             Mode. As for that, your idle Times must judg of it.  
             Spend. Well, I will go to my Lodgings, and con-  
             sider it.  
             Mode. Nay, faith, Consideration will spoile all my  
             Instructions. Exit Spend-all, the rest stays.  
             Enter Lady Wagtail, Wanton, Self-conceit, and Bash-  
             ful, as also the Mother.  
             Self. 'Tis well you are come, I would not be in your  
             condition for any thing.  Wagt.   
          
          
             Scene V. The PRESENCE. 51  
          
          
             Wagt. I'faith, you will be talk'd withal.  
          
          
             Want. If I were in so sad a condition, I know what  
             I know.  
          
          
             Bash. Why Ladies, I have neither deserved Impri-  
             sonment, not Death, which is the worst that can come  
             unto me; but if I be condemned, I shall suffer both  
             with patience and with courage.  
          
          
             Self. O Lord! she speaks freely.  
          
          
             Wagt. She has found a Tongue since she went.  
          
          
             Wagt. 'Tis well, if she has lost nothing, since she  
          
          
             went.  
          
          
             Self. On my word you have done very ill, which  
          
          
             you deserve to be chid for.  
             Want. I believe the Princess will turn you away.  
             Bash. I am very sorry I have offended the Princess;  
          
          
             but yet I have done nothing but what I had her leave for.  
             Enter Lady Quickwit.  
             Quick. Madamoisel Bashful, you must come to the  
          
          
             Princes; Exeunt Balhful and Quickwit.  
             Obs. to the Moth. Alas poor Mother we were all a-  
             fraid you were kill'd.  
          
          
             Moth. Kill'd, who should kill me?  
             Obs. Why, a rough, rude Coachman.  
             Moth. Which way should he kill me?  
             Obs. With tumbling you over.  
             Moth. How tumbling me over?  
             Obs. VVith your head downwards, and your  
             heels upwards.  
              Enter   
          
          
          
             52 The PRESENCE. Act II.  
          
          
             Enter Madamoisel Quick-wit.  
             Self. VVhat News? what News? what doth Ma-  
             damoisel Bashful confess?  
          
          
             Want. VVhat doth she confess?  
          
          
             Quick. VVhy, she confesses, she was at Madamoisel  
             Civilitie's house, where she met the Lord Loyalty.  
          
          
             Wagt. And what said the Princess then?  
          
          
             Quick. VVhy the Princess chid her for offering to  
             meet any Man without her leave; But she has pardon'd  
             her for this time, and you must go all to the back-stairs,  
             and stay there to wait on the Princess into the Gallery.  
          
          
             Exeunt VVomen.  
          
          
             Mode. I would the Ladies had so much love for me,  
             as they are angry with their fellow-Lady.  
          
          
             Conv. If they had, they would overpower you with  
             their kindness.  
          
          
             Mode. I would desire nothing more but to be so  
             overpower'd.  
             Enter Self-conceit in hast running over the Stage.  
             Self. Run, run.  
             Enter Quick-wit, passing in hast over the Stage.  
             Quick. Follow, follow.  
             Enter VVanton.  
             Want. Call, call, call.  
             Enter Mother.  
             Moth. Bring, bring, bring.  
             The Men stand in a Maze.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 53  
          
          
             Enter Fool passing over the Stage.  
             Fool. Oh the Lord! I am undone, undone  
             The Men stop him.  
             Conv. What is the matter, Fool?  
             Fool. I cannot stay to tell you.  
             Obs. But you must.  
          
          
             Fool. If I must, I must.  
             Conv. Tell me what makes this Hubbub, which  
          
          
             seems to distract the Ladies? is the Emperor not well,  
          
          
             or the Princess sick?  
             Fool. The Emperor is well, but will have cause to be  
          
          
             sick; and the Princess is sick, and will have cause to be  
          
          
             well.  
          
          
             Mode. How so?  
             Fool. Because the Princess has spi'd her Idea, and  
          
          
             will marry him, and so will be cured of her Melancholy,  
             and be well; but he is a poor Mariner or Sea-man, and  
             that will make the Emperor sick.  
             Enter the Ladies, and the Mariner passing over the Stage.  
          
          
             Fool. Now you have seen the cause of the uproar,  
             you will let me pass with my fellow-fools.  
          
          
             Exit Fool.  
             Conv. Sure the Princess will not Marry this poor  
          
          
             fellow.  
          
          
             Obs. If she doth, the Court will be Metamorphorsed  
             from a house to a Ship, and the Courtiers to Mariners.  
             Mode. Then we shall sail to some new Plantation.  
          
          
              P  Enter   
          
          
          
             54 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Quick-wit, Self-conceit, Wanton.  
          
          
             Want. As I live, he is a handom Man.  
          
          
             Self. But he is a poor mean fellow.  
          
          
             Want. But a poor mean fellow may be a handsom  
             Man.  
          
          
             Self. Not in my opinion.  
          
          
             Quick. Truly I am of the opinion, the Wealth doth  
             not make .Worth. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT III. SCENE I.  
             Enter the Sailer leading the Princess, who appears well  
             pleased, with the Attendance of Ladies and Gentlemen,  
             and the Fool.  
             Princess.  
              S IR, although the Emperor is at Council, and will  
             not be seen at the present, yet I will entertain you  
             until such time as his Majesty admits you to his  
             Presence.  
             The Sailer Kisses her Hand.  
             Fool. They say, Lovers promise much; if so, you are  
             a Lover, for you promise more then you dare perform.  
             Prin. How so?  
             Fool. You say, you will entertain the Sailer's Com-  
             pany until the Emperor admits him to his Presence,  
             and if he doth not admit him until to morrow, you  
             must entertain his Company all night.  
              Prin.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The PRESENCE. 55  
          
          
             Prin. You are a Knave, Fool.  
          
          
             Fool. But I am not a Lady's Fool.  
          
          
             Prin. Come Gentlemen and Ladies, call for Musick,  
             for we will dance until the Emperor rises from  
             Council. One calls for Musick.  
          
          
             Prin. Sir, can you dance our Country Dances.  
          
          
             Sail. I will do my endeavour, Lady; and if I have  
             not skill for the present, I will learn for the future, if  
             you command me.  
             The Musick plays, they all dance, and the Sailer with the  
          
          
             Princess; the Sailer dances civilly, gracefully, and with  
          
          
             art and skill.  
             Prin. Sir, you want not Art, for you Dance skil-  
             fully.  
          
          
             Sail. Lady, I want not Love, and Love works  
             Miracles.  
          
          
             They Dance again: At the end of this Dance Enters  
          
          
             a Gentleman.  
             Gent. May it please your Highness, the Emperor  
             desires your Presence.  
             The Princess whispers to the Sailer, he bows and kisses  
             her Hand. Exeunt All  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
          
             56 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter all the Maids of Honour, except Madamoisel Bash-  
             ful, and Self-conceit; as also Monsieur Conversant,  
             Observer and Spend-all.  
          
          
             Wanton.  
              O  That we might dance Country Dances to day.  
             Wagt. Why, Monsieur Spend-all makes a Ball  
             to night, are not you one of the invited?  
             Want. O yes, but I had forgot the Ball.  
             Quick. Why, we are all invited.  
             Enter Self-conceit.  
             Self. Do you hear the News?  
             Want. What News?  
          
          
             Self. Madamoisel Bashful and the Lord Loyalty are  
             Married.  
             Wagt. For certain truth do you speak it?  
             Self. Of a certain truth 'tis so.  
          
          
             Quick. Why, the Lord Loyalty was accounted a  
          
          
             Wise Man.  
          
          
             Obs. Why, Madam, he is never the less Wise for  
             Marrying a virtuous sweet Lady.  
          
          
             Quick. What, not in these troublesome and mutinous  
             Times.  
          
          
             Obs. In all times there was and is Marrying, and  
             giving in Marriage; and those that are Honest are Wise,  
             and it is Honest to Marry, and Wise; for if Men and  
          
          
              VVo-   
          
          
             Scen II. The PRESENCE. 57  
          
          
             Women should live in common, it were the way to  
             extinguish Propriety; and where there is no Propriety,  
          
          
             there is no Justice; and without Justice a Common-  
          
          
             wealth would be dissolved.  
             Wagt. Well, in my opinion he has done very in-  
          
          
             discreetly.  
          
          
             Want. Nay, faith, methinks, he hath done very foo-  
          
          
             lishly.  
             Self. In my opinion, she has done as foolishly as he,  
             for he is a ruined man.  
             Conv. Give me leave to tell you, Ladies, there is ne-  
             ver a one of you all who would have refused him, as ru-  
             ined as he is; but you would have been ambitious and  
             proud to Marry him.  
             Wagt. You are deceived; for I would not Marry  
             him or any other, were he as rich as Pluto.  
             Want. Nor I would not Marry,might I have a King.  
             Quick. Nor I to have been an Emperess.  
             Self. Nor I if I might have been Mistress of the whole  
             World.  
             Spend. Then I perceive, Ladies, you are all resolved  
             to live single lives.  
             Wagt. There is none happy, but those that are Mi-  
             stresses of themselves.  
             Quick. I should never endure to be subject to a Hus-  
          
          
             band.  
          
          
             Want. I hate Marriage as I hate death.  
             Self. I love Freedom, as I love Life.  
              Q  Enter   
          
          
          
             58 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             Enter Mother.  
             Quick. Mother, do you hear of your Daughter's  
             Marriage?  
             Moth. Yes, and the Princess is very angry at it.  
             Quick. She hath reason.  
          
          
             Self. If I were the Princess, I would make them re-  
          
          
             pent their Marriage.  
          
          
             Wagt. Yes faith, I would put water into their Wine.  
          
          
             Obs. Lord, Ladies, why should the Princess be angry  
             either with him, or with her, since Marriage is honest,  
             and free for ever one to chuse where they please; nei-  
             ther do I see either in Reason or Justice, why either of  
             them should be condemned, since none will suffer, if they  
             be unhappy, but themselves; and I suppose that none  
             here is so ill-natured as to repine at their Felicity.  
          
          
             Self. Come, pray let us go see how she looks since  
             she is Married.  
          
          
             Want. Proud, I'le warrant you.  
          
          
             Wagt. I dare swear she will carry state now.  
          
          
             Self. She was proud enough before she was Married,  
             she cannot be much prouder then she was.  
          
          
             Quick. You say right, for what every body thought  
             was bashfulness and modesty in her, was meerly pride.  
          
          
             Exeunt Ladies, the Men stay.  
             Obs. The Maids of Honour live so happily in the  
             Court, and are so pleased with their several Courtships,  
             as they hate to think of Marriage.  
          
          
             Mode. That's because they cannot get Husbands; for  
          
          
              Men   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 59  
          
          
             Men are afraid to Marry Maids of Honour, because  
             they are so used to Courtships, that they will give leave  
             to be Courted when they are Married; besides, Men  
             think them vain and expensive.  
          
          
             Spend. They speak so bitterly against Marriage, and  
             all that are Married, as I do verily believe they would  
             not Marry upon any condition.  
          
          
             Mode. I will try them whether they will or no, for  
             my own satisfaction.  
          
          
             Obs. Which way will you try them? for if you  
          
          
             should examine them never so soberly, and gravely, they  
          
          
             will never discover their minds so, that you shall know  
             whether they would Marry or not.  
             Mode. Faith, I will offer every one of them a Hus-  
             band, and try if they will accept of them.  
             Obs. O, they will laugh at you, and scorn you for  
             your offer.  
          
          
             Mode. Well, I will try them, let them scorn and  
          
          
             laugh as they please.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Conversant.  
          
          
             Conv. Monsieur Mode, I hear you intend to travel  
          
          
             into Foreign Nations.  
          
          
             Mode. You hear right, Sir; for I want only travel  
             to make me a compleat Mode-Gallant; whereby, I shall  
             be more graceful in the eyes of the Ladies.  
          
          
             Spend. But if your Travels be long, you will be less  
             graceful in the eyes of the Ladies, for you will be too  
             old to please their sight; but you want not Mistresses,  
             nor the art of Courtship.  Mode.   
          
          
          
             60 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             Mode. Faith, to tell you the truth, I would travel  
             to see Foreign Beauties; for I am satisfied with the  
             Ladies here in my Native Country.  
          
          
             Obs. I hope you have not taken a surfeit of them.  
          
          
             Spend. Truly I should be glad to have some of his  
             Leavings.  
          
          
             Conv. It is a sign you are sharp set.  
          
          
             Obs. The old Lady has whet his appetite.  
          
          
             Spend.I confess old Women make wanton young Men.  
             Conv. Let Monsieur Mode Court your old Lady to  
             cure his surfeit.  
          
          
             Spend. With all my heart, so he will bequeath me  
             his young Mistresses.  
             Mode. I did instruct you how to Court and gain  
          
          
             Ladies to your Imbracements; but either you are a dull  
          
          
             Scholar, or an unfortunate Courtier.  
          
          
             Spend. I confess my ill fortune in Courtships; but  
          
          
             you may be as unfortunate in Foreign Nations; for  
          
          
             though you are A la Mode here in your Native Coun-  
             try, 'tis likely you will be quite out of fashion and  
             language in other Nations.  
          
          
             Conv. For Language, I dare say he will be to learn.  
             Obs. Then how will he Woo a Mistress?  
          
          
             Mode. O, VVomen are best pleased with those they  
          
          
             understand least.  
          
          
             Spend. He knows the humours of VVomen best, he  
             is so conversant with them; but prithee Mode do not  
             travel until I have learn'd thy Art of Courtship.  
          
          
              Conv.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 61  
          
          
             Conv. Into what Countries will you travel, Mon-  
             sieur Mode?  
          
          
             Mode. Into France and Italy; the one to refine my  
             Habit, the other to refresh my sight with new  
          
          
             Beauties.  
          
          
             Obs. Then they must not be ca-stCourtisans; but  
          
          
             let me perswade you to stay at home, and Marry.  
             Mode. No, I will not Marry, to lose my freedom.  
          
          
             Spend. Faith, and I intend to Marry to take more  
          
          
             liberty.  
          
          
             Mode. Marriage is a bondage.  
          
          
             Spend. Not if you Marry a rich old Woman.  
             Conv. No, for her Riches will supply his wants, and  
          
          
             maintain his Mistresses; and her age will be an excuse  
          
          
             for his Adulteries.  
          
          
             Mode. Faith, Gentlemen, you speak reason; where-  
          
          
             fore, I'le go a Wooing to Monsieur Spend-all's old  
             rich Lady.  
          
          
             Spend. You will not speed there, for I am afore-  
             hand with you; for though you can Court young  
          
          
             Women better then I, yet for old Women I go be-  
          
          
             yond you. But if you chance to Marry a young Wo-  
          
          
             man, I shall willingly change a nights lodging with  
             you.  
          
          
             Mode. Are you Married to the old Lady?  
          
          
             Spend. I must Marry her, which is my grief.  
          
          
             Mode. Pray bid us to your Wedding.  
          
          
             Spend. That I will, and feast you after I am Married,  
          
          
              R  for   
          
          
          
             62 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             for I shall not be jealous of my Wife, nor afraid you  
             will make me a Cuckold; and I have a desire to invite  
             the young Female Courtiers.  
          
          
             Obs. That will make your old Lady jealous; and if  
          
          
             she be jealous, when you are just upon the point of  
          
          
             Marriage, she may chance to refuse you; wherefore, do  
             not invite them until the next day, when she is past her  
          
          
             choice.  
          
          
             Spend. You say true, and the next day we will Revel.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
             Enter Self-conceit and Quick-wit.  
             Quick-wit.  
              T He Emperor is highly discontent.  
             Self. If he be displeased, he can only be angry  
             with himself; for when the Princess was so Melancholy,  
             that she was ready to die, he did assure her, she should  
             make her own choice of a Husband, and that he would  
             not deny her any one Man in all his Empire.  
             Quick-wit. But this Man is not of his Empire, for  
             he is a stranger.  
             Self. Faith, it would be but an even Match, whether  
          
          
             she did chuse a poor mean Native, or a poor mean  
          
          
             Stranger. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The PRESENCE. 63  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
          
          
             Enter Princess and the Sailer; the Fool attends them; the  
          
          
             Princess Weeps.  
          
          
             Sailer.  
              VV Hy doth your Highness weep? for if the  
          
          
             Emperor your Father be unjust, the Gods  
          
          
             will not be so; for they will Crown our honest Loves  
             with Happiness and Blessings.  
             Prin. But Lovers are never happy.  
          
          
             Sail. Believe no so; for true Loves are always  
             blessed with good success, and those that have ill fortune  
             have not been true Lovers.  
          
          
             Enter such as are proper to deliver the Emperor's  
             pleasure; they speak to the Sailer.  
          
          
             Sailer, The Emperor's pleasure is, That you imme-  
             diately go out of his Dominions; for if you be found  
             in any part within such time as may be travel'd  
             to the Sea-side the shortest way, he will cut off your  
          
          
             Head.  
          
          
             Sail. Tell the Emperor, I fear not death.  
             Men. Will not you be gone.  
          
          
             Sail. No, I will stay as long as I can.  
             Men. But you shall go, since it is the Emperor's  
             pleasure, That we see you out of his Empire.  
             Sail. Be gone, and trouble me no more, or I'le beat  
             you out of the Princess's Lodgings.  
              Men.   
          
          
          
             64 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             Men. You beat us, you poor Water-Snake!  
             Sail. Cupid, thou god of Love, and Mars thou  
             god of War, assist me.  
             He falls upon them, and beats them out of the Room; the  
             Princess seems to be in a fright.  
          
          
             Sail. A Company of Cowardly Rascals, that have  
          
          
             no more Courage then a Flea, that skips at every little  
             motion.  
             Prin. O my dear Love! what will you do?  
             Sail. Die in your Arms, sweet Mistress.  
             Prin. But you cannot resist the Emperor's Power.  
             Sail. But I can die in despite of the Emperor's  
             Power.  
             Prin. But your death will be my death.  
             Sail. Say not so; for those words will beget such a  
             belief, as to make me a Coward, which is more terrible  
             to me then death; for in death lives Rest, but in a Co-  
          
          
             ward lives Infamy.  
             Prin. But pray consider, if you will yield to depart  
          
          
             out of the Empire, I may find means to depart with  
          
          
             you, or to follow you.  
             Sail. Death is more Honourable then to fly from  
          
          
             any misfortune; and though I love you better then my  
             Soul, yet I had rather die then fly.  
          
          
             Prin. But by your willing death, you will become  
          
          
             a cruel murderer, not only to your self, but me.  
          
          
             Sail. Die you must, my dear Mistress, so must I.  
          
          
             Prin. Heaven grant that in one Grave we both may lie.  
              Fool.   
          
          
             Scen I. The PRESENCE. 65  
          
          
             Fool. Shed no more tears, nor talk of Graves; for  
             if you will absolutely be ruled by me, if I be not too  
             hard for the Emperor, and all his Councels, hang me  
             when you are Emperess, which you must be; for the  
          
          
             Power and Title comes from your Mother, not from  
             your Father.  
          
          
             Prin. Tell me how?  
             Fool. Nay faith, a Fool must have some time for  
             contrivance, as well as wise States-Men. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT IV. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Mode, and Madamoisel Quick-wit.  
          
          
             Mode.  
              L Ady, there is one of my Acquaintance, that desires  
          
          
             a Wife; but he may desire long enough, for I  
          
          
             think none will have him for a Husband.  
          
          
             Quick. Why?  
             Mode. Why! he is the most deformed Man that  
          
          
             ever was seen.  
          
          
             Quick. Well, if I were to chuse a Husband, I would  
          
          
             never chuse a handsom Man; for their Beauty makes  
          
          
             them so self-conceited, that they regard not their Wives;  
             besides, they seem, and are for the most part, effeminate,  
             which I hate; wherefore, for my part, I would chuse an  
          
          
             ill-favoured Man, and the more ill-favoured he were,  
          
          
             the better I should like him, as looking more Masculine.  
              S  Mode.   
          
          
          
             64 The PRESENCE. Act III.  
          
          
             Men. You beat us, you poor Water-Snake!  
          
          
             Sail. Cupid, thou god of Love, and Mars thou  
             god of War, assist me.  
          
          
             He falls upon them, and beats them out of the Room; the  
             Princess seems to be in a fright.  
          
          
             Sail. A Company of Cowardly Rascals, that have  
             no more Courage then a Flea, that skips at every little  
             motion.  
          
          
             Prin. O my dear Love! what will you do?  
          
          
             Sail. Die in your Arms, sweet Mistress.  
          
          
             Prin. But you cannot resist the Emperor's Power.  
             Sail. But I can die in despite of the Emperor's  
             Power.  
          
          
             Prin. But your death will be my death.  
          
          
             Sail. Say not so; for those words will beget such a  
             belief, as to make me a Coward, which is more terrible  
             to me then death; for in death lives Rest, but in a Co-  
          
          
             ward lives Infamy.  
             Prin. But pray consider, if you will yield to depart  
             out of the Empire, I may find means to depart with  
             you, or to follow you.  
             Sail. Death is more Honourable then to fly from  
             any misfortune; and though I love you better then my  
             Soul, yet I had rather die then fly.  
             Prin. But by your willing death, you will become  
          
          
             a cruel murderer, not only to your self, but me.  
             Sail. Die you must, my dear Mistress, so must I.  
             Prin. Heaven grant that in one Grave we both may lie.  
              Fool.   
          
          
             Scen I. The PRESENCE. 65  
          
          
             Fool. Shed no more tears, not talk of Graves; for  
             if you will absolutely be ruled by me, if I be not too  
             hard for the Emperor, and all his Councels, hang me  
             when you are Empress, which you must be; for the  
             Power and Title comes from your Mother, not from  
             your Father.  
          
          
             Prin. Tell me how?  
          
          
             Fool. Nay faith, a Fool must have some time for  
          
          
             contrivance, as well as wise States-men. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT IV. SCENE I.  
             Enter Monsieur Mode, and Madamoisel Quick-wit.  
             Mode.  
              L Ady, there is one of my Acquaintance, that desires  
          
          
             a Wife, but he may desire long enough, for I  
             think none will have him for a Husband.  
             Quick. Why?  
          
          
             Mode. Why! he is the most deformed Man that  
          
          
             ever was seen.  
          
          
             Quick. Well, if I were to chuse a Husband, I would  
             never chuse a handsome Man; for their Beauty makes  
          
          
             them so self-conceited, that they regard not their Wives;  
             besides, they seem, and are for the most part, effeminate,  
          
          
             which I hate; wherefore, for my part, I will chuse an  
             ill-favoured Man, and the more ill-favoured he were,  
          
          
             the better I should like him, as looking more Masculine.  
              S  Mode.   
          
          
          
             66 The PRESENCE. Act. IV.  
          
          
             Mode, O! but that's not all, Madam; for his Nature  
             and Disposition is according to his Person; the one as  
             evil, as the other ill-favour'd.  
          
          
             Quick. O Sir, such a man I could love with all my  
             heart; for a surly Nature seems Heroick; when as such  
             men as have sweet Disposition, and gentle Natures,  
             which is to be soft and facil, are Fools; and I would not  
             marry a Fool for any thing in the world.  
          
          
             Mode. But Madam, let me tell you, He is none of the  
          
          
             wisest.  
          
          
             Quick. Nay, Sir, mistake me not; for I would not  
          
          
             have him a very wise man, lest he should condemn me  
             as a Fool; but an indifferent understanding I like  
             best.  
             Mode. Why, then this man would be a fit Husband  
             for you.  
             Quick. The fittest in the World; Good Monsieur  
             Mode speak for me, and I shall think my self obliged to  
             you.  
             Mode. I shall motion you, Lady.  
             Exit Quick-wit.  
             Enter Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Mode. Madam, there is a Gentleman, an Acquain-  
          
          
             tance of mine, which intreated me to ask you, whether  
          
          
             you would please to accept of him for a Husband, if  
             he should offer himself to you; he is loth to have a personal  
             denial, wherefore he would not make his addresses him-  
          
          
             self, unless he had an assurance you would entertain him.  
              Self.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The PRESENCE. 67  
          
          
             Self. Pray Sir, what manner of man is he?  
             Mode. Faith Lady, I cannot much commend either  
          
          
             his Person, or Parts, Humour, or Disposition; but he  
          
          
             has a Competent Fortune, not so much, as to maintain  
          
          
             a Wise gallantly, but decently.  
          
          
             Self. Why, that's as much as I desire; more would  
          
          
             be but an unnecessary superfluity; as for Person, I regard  
          
          
             not the outward Shape; and for his Humour and  
             Disposition, I shall alter those when we are married;  
             and truly Sir, I think my self much obliged to you,  
             for mentioning the man unto me.  
             Mode. Your Servant Lady.  
          
          
             Self. Yours, Monsieur Mode.  
          
          
             Exit Self-conceit.  
             Enter Wanton.  
             Mode. Lady, I am tyred with the importunity of a  
          
          
             Gentleman, that will not let me rest in quiet, until I  
          
          
             have inform'd you of his Affections to you, and for  
          
          
             you.  
          
          
             Want. Who is he?  
          
          
             Mode. Nay, he must be unknown, until heknow  
             whether you will accept of him; but in truth, myCon-  
             science bids me perswade you against him; indeed I  
             would not have mention'd him, but that he will not let  
             me rest, till I have told you his desires.  
          
          
             Want. What manner of Man is he? and what E-  
          
          
             state has he? and of what Quality is he?  
          
          
             Mode. He is a Gentleman, and as for his Person, to  
              speak   
          
          
          
             68 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             speak truth, he is a very Handsom man, as any is, but  
             he is not worth a Denier, a very Shark for his living.  
          
          
             Want. I marry Sir, give me a Man that lives by his  
             wits; for every Fool can tell how to live, if he be rich;  
             besides, I had rather enjoy Beauty, then Wealth, with  
          
          
             a Husband.  
             Mode. O, but that's not all, Madam; for his is a very  
          
          
             deboist Man; he Drinks, and Whores, and Games.  
          
          
             Want. Marriage will reclaim him.  
          
          
             Mode. But he has got such a Habit of Debauchery,  
          
          
             that 'tis to be fear'd, he will never be reclaimed.  
          
          
             Want. The truth of it is, I would chuse a deboist  
             Man for a Husband sooner then a Temperate Man;  
             for his several Debaucheries will be my several Pastimes;  
          
          
             besides, I shall have his Company but sometimes, which  
          
          
             will make him appear to me fresh and new; whereas,  
             a Stoical and Temperate Husband, will tire me out  
             with his continual Company, being always at home,  
             or else he would restrain me with his Moral Discipline.  
             Mode. But there is another reason, that may disswade  
             you from him.  
          
          
             Want. What's that?  
          
          
             Mode. Why, 'tis said, he has the French Pox, and I  
          
          
             believe you will not venture on that Disease.  
          
          
             Want. I am of so healthful a Constitution, I fear no  
             Disease; besides, he is not a Courtly nor well-bred Man,  
             that has not a spice of that Disease; and the truth is, I  
          
          
             should account that Man uncivil, and not a Gentle-  
          
          
              man,   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 69  
          
          
             man, but a meer dull Clown that were free thereof, and  
             found there-from; for the compleatest Gentlemen are  
             ever under the Arrest of that Disease; wherefore, Sir, to  
             release you of his importunity, tell him from me, I shall  
          
          
             not refuse him, but willingly accept of him.  
          
          
             Mode. I shall Madam. Exeunt.  
             SCENE II.  
             Enter Wagtail, Self-conceit, and Wanton.  
             Wagtail.  
          
          
              L Ord! Self-conceit, I have not seen you never since  
             the night before the last night!  
          
          
             Self. You might have seen me if you had been so  
             kind as to come to my Lodging, for I lay a bed all  
          
          
             yesterday, by reason I had a great many to come to Visit  
          
          
             me, and they were Men of Quality.  
          
          
             Wagt. Faith, I could not come, by reason Monsieur  
          
          
             Malicious was going over, to whom you know, I have  
          
          
             intrusted all my affairs, so as I was dispatching some bu-  
             siness with him.  
          
          
             Self. But I will never forgive my friend Wanton,  
             that she would not come with the Lords and Gentle-  
             men to visit me.  
          
          
             Wan.Faith,I could not come; for my Chamber-fellow  
             and I, both of us, did bath yesterday, and there came in  
             two or three Gentlemen whilest we were in the Bath,  
          
          
              T  and   
          
          
          
             70 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             and stay'd talking so long with us that I have catch'd  
             Cold.  
          
          
             Self. Lord! did Madamoisel Supple Bath again ye-  
             sterday! why she bathed but the day before; for a Gen-  
             tleman told me, that Madam Liberty was in the Bath,  
             and when she went out, then she went into Madamoi-  
          
          
             sel Supple's Bed to warm and dry her self, and Mr. Amo-  
          
          
             rous entertain'd her whilst she lay there, and Madamoi-  
             sel Supple, as soon as Madamoisel Liberty went out of  
             the Bath, went into it; and by that time that Madamoisel  
             Liberty rose out of the bed, Madamoisel Supple was  
             ready to enter into it, and then Mr. Break-jest did en-  
             tertain her with pleasant Discourses.  
          
          
             Want. Certainly, Bathing is very wholsome.  
             Self. But let me tell you, Wanton, that often Bathing  
             weakens very much.  
             Exeunt Wanton and Self-conceit.  
             Wagtail Sola, Enter to her Mode.  
             Wagt. Monsieur Mode, I have watch'd for an oppor-  
             tunity to speak to you alone these two or three days.  
          
          
             Mode. To me, sweet Lady! what is it you would  
             say?  
             Wagt. 'Tis this; I hear you are acquainted with a  
             Man, who is very rich and unmarried, and 'tis repor-  
             ted he will marry a Wife of your chusing; and Sir, I  
             shall not be ungrateful, if you will chuse me for his  
             Wife.  
          
          
             Mode. 'Tis true, I am acquainted with such a Man,  
              who   
          
          
             Scen. III. The PRESENCE. 71  
          
          
             who is very rich, but he is a very Fool; the truth is, the  
          
          
             next degree to a Changeling.  
             Wagt. I like that the better, for so I may govern  
          
          
             him and his Estate.  
          
          
             Mode. Nay, Lady, let me inform you, that though  
             he be a Fool, yet he is a covetous and self-conceited  
             Fool, neither to be ruled nor wrought upon, nor yet  
             to be perswaded to any thing, but what he himself  
             likes best.  
             Wagt. However Sir, I shall gain a respect and esteem  
          
          
             in the World by the Reputation of his Wealth; where-  
          
          
             fore, good Monsieur Mode, let me intreat you to prefer  
          
          
             me to his good liking.  
          
          
             Mode. I shall do my endeavour, Lady.  
             Exit Wagtail.  
             Enter Observer to Mode.  
             Obs. The Sailer is gone to Prison, and the Princess  
          
          
             confin'd to her Chamber.  
          
          
             Mode. I am sorry for the Princess's restraint.  
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
          
          
             Enter Sailer as in a Prison, Manicled with Chains.  
          
          
              Y Ou Heav'nly Powers, do you have life secure,  
          
          
             Though for her sake I torment must endure.  
              Show'r   
          
          
          
             72 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             Show'r blessings on her Life, and let her Name  
          
          
             Be glorious to Posterity and Fame:  
             But I profane, thou art a Deitie;  
             Wherefore my Prayers, I'le direct to thee:  
             Thou Goddess know it, what torments I do feel,  
             My life is wrack'd upon ill-fortune's wheel.  
             O! do not break my heart, thou Heav'nly Power,  
             For 'tis thy own Idea's onely Tower;  
             For when I dye, where will thy Mansion be?  
             In every Heart and Head that thinks of thee:  
             Then let me die in peace, for thou wilt reign  
          
          
             In every Soul, as well as every Brain. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
             Enter Jaylor and Fool.  
             Fool.  M Aster. Jaylor?  
             Jayl. What say you, Mr. Fool?  
          
          
             Fool. Will you take a Fool's Counsel?  
             Jayl. No but my Faith.  
          
          
             Fool. Then by my Faith, I'le prove you a Fool; for  
          
          
             my Counsel is, To let the Sailer escape.  
             Jayl. So I shall be han'd my self.  
          
          
             Fool. That is uncertain; but if the Sailer suffers, you  
          
          
             are sure to be hang'd.  
             Jayl. How so?  
             Fool. Why you know the Princess must be Empe-  
              ress,   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 73  
          
          
             ress, because that Dignity comes by her Mother; and the  
             Emperor is but Emperor during life, and so upon Cour-  
             tesie; and when the Princess is Emperess, she will be  
             sure to hang you, and not only you, but ruine all  
             your Posterity.  
          
          
             Jayl. Go,go, you talk like a Fool as you are! I will  
             be an honest Jaylor, and not betray my Prisoners.  
          
          
             Fool. Not betray your Prisoners, say you! consider  
          
          
             well, lest you betray your self.  
             Exit Fool, Jayler Solus.  
          
          
             Jayl. This Fool hasa notable Wit. Exit.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
          
          
             Enter Wanton,Wagtail,Self-conceit,and Quick-wit.  
          
          
             Wanton.  
          
          
              VV Hen did you see Monsieur Mode?  
             Wagt. I have not seen him these two days.  
             Self. Nor I.  
             Quick. Nor I.  
          
          
             Want. I fear he is sick.  
             Wagt. I hope in God, not.  
          
          
             Self. Pray Heav'n grant he be in health.  
          
          
             Quick. Amen; for he is one of the civillest persons I  
          
          
             know.  
             Want. Indeed he is an obliging person.  
             Wagt. He is a gallant Man.  
              V  Self.   
          
          
          
             47 The PRESENCE. Act. IV.  
             Self. The truth is, he has not his equal.  
             Enter Conversant.  
             Conv. Ladies, what happy Man is he that you are  
             praising.  
             Self. VVhy, Monsieur Mode?  
             Wagt. He is a Man that may be a Sample to all Men  
             Quick. There is none can parallel him.  
             Want. He is worth more then praise can give him.  
             Conv. He cannot chuse but prosper in his Travels  
             when he is so highly praised by a Company of Beauti-  
             ful Ladies.  
             Want. In his Travels! why whither is he gone?  
             Conv. Into Italy; and the Company he is gone with,  
             went on such a sudden, as he had no time to come and  
             kiss your hands, and take his leave; but he has sent me  
             to make his excuse, and beg his pardon, although he  
             could not help it, unless he should have lost those Con-  
             veniences he has by going in the Company of such as  
             can speak the Language, which he cannot.  
             Quick. Pray speak no more of him, for it is no mat-  
             ter whither he is gone, since he has no more Civility.  
             Self. Never was there such an act done by a Gen-  
             tleman, as to go not only out of the Town, but the  
             Kingdom, and never take his leave of us.  
             Want. Faith, he has shewn himself what he is, a  
             Clown.  
             Wagt. A meer Booby.  
             Self. A Boor.  
          
          
              Quick.   
          
          
             Scen. V. The PRESENCE. 75  
             Quick. Indeed by his behavior to us he seems not  
          
          
             to be a Gentleman.  
          
          
             Want. One might have easily judged what he was,  
             if any would have taken the pains to consider him.  
          
          
             Wagt. I despise such a man.  
          
          
             Self. I hate such a man.  
          
          
             Want. I abhor him.  
             Conv. Ladies, I perceive our Sex is very unhappy,  
             for you will love and hate us in a minute, and praise and  
             dispraise us in one breath.  
          
          
             Ladies. We have reason.  
          
          
             Enter Spend-all, Conversant, Observer, and the  
          
          
             Ladies.  
             Spend. Ladies I have ask'd the Princess leave, that  
             you, Her Maids, should honour me with your Pre-  
          
          
             sence at my Marriage Feast.  
             Self. Are you Married?  
             Spend. Yes.  
          
          
             Quick. What fair Lady, have you Married?  
             Spend. Madam, my condition perswaded me to chuse  
             a fair Fortune, rather then a fair Face; but what she  
             wants in Beauty, she has in age, I should have said in  
          
          
             Wealth.  
          
          
             Quick. It is a sign her Age is in your mind, more then  
             her Wealth, that your tongue was so ready to speak it.  
             Wagt. But if your Lady be old, we that are young,  
             shall hardly be welcom.  
          
          
             Enter Mode.  
              Want.   
          
          
          
             76 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             Want. Lord, Monsieur Mode, I thought you had been  
          
          
             gone to Travel.  
          
          
             Mode. No, that design is alter'd; for I intend now  
          
          
             to stay, and marry a rich old Lady too.  
          
          
             Self. If all the young Gallants marry old Women,  
          
          
             What shall we young Women do for Husbands?  
             Mode. It were great pity, and not to be suffred,  
             that young Women should marry whil'st their Beauty  
          
          
             doth last; but they should live unmarried, to be Mi-  
          
          
             stresses to command Men, and not made slaves to obey,  
             as Wives are.  
          
          
             Quick. The best for young Women, is to marry  
          
          
             ancient Men, for so we shall be Vertuous Mistresses to  
          
          
             wise men in a married condition and life.  
          
          
             Conv. But Lady, all the younger sort of Men, are  
             not so necessitated through their lavish expences, to mar-  
             ry for Riches; for I am not so vain, nor poor, but I may  
             marry for Beauty, and not any Beauty pleaseth me so  
             well as yours.  
          
          
             Quick. I had rather be married for my Wit, then  
             for my Beauty.  
             Conv. That man is happy, Lady, that can have a  
             Wife with both.  
             Self. This is just according to the Old Saying, That  
             one Wedding makes two.  
             Obs. And if you please Madam, these two Wed-  
             dings shall be the cause of a third.  
             Self. Let us see, how the married Couples agree first.  
          
          
              Mode.   
          
          
             Scen. VI. The PRESENCE. 77  
          
          
             Mode. We will have no particular Wooing, but  
             all shall be in common; otherwise, our meeting will be  
          
          
             dull, and our mirth out of tune.  
          
          
             Want. You say right, Monsieur Mode, for the fiddle-  
             string of Mirth will be broken; but let us go and re-  
             joyce with Mr. Spend-all, and dance and feast, as a Thanks-  
             giving to Fortune for her favours to him.  
          
          
             Spend. The greatest favour that Fortune can give me,  
             is, to be honoured with your Company; and if you  
             please to lead the way, the rest will follow.  
          
          
             Spend-all sighs. Ha! these Marriages spoile all Amo-  
          
          
             rous Courtships.  
          
          
             Exeunt Omnes, each leading his Mistress.  
          
          
             SCENE VI.  
             Enter Fool, and the Sailer as in a Prison.  
             Fool.  
              M Aster Sailer, the Princess has sent to know of you,  
          
          
             whether you be dead?  
             Sail. In her absence I am dead to all Happiness, for  
          
          
             I have no joys of life.  
          
          
             Fool. Then I shall tell her you are dead.  
             Sail. You may tell her I am worse then dead; for I  
          
          
             am miserable, wanting her Company, and miser is  
          
          
             worse then death.  
          
          
              X  Fool.   
          
          
          
             78 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             Fool. Pray God I remember all this; viz. Absence,  
          
          
             Happiness, Joys, Life, Dead, Miserable, Misery, and  
          
          
             Death. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE VII.  
          
          
             Enter Princess alone, Musing; Enter Fool to her.  
          
          
              F Ool. O Lady! Lady! the Sailer's dead.  
          
          
             She falls into a passion as distracted, then speaks.  
          
          
             Prin. Make me a Ship to sail up high to Heav'n,  
             Where I may swim through all the Planets Seven;  
             Not to find Gold or Silver, such base dross,  
          
          
             But my dear Love and Lover; which rich loss  
             Is worth more then the World: Or, make a Boat,  
             That I may thorough the dark Stygian float  
          
          
             To the Elysium, there to meet my Dear,  
             Where I shall neither State nor Father fear:  
          
          
             Or else, you Gods, cast me so low and deep,  
             Without a Dream I may for ever sleep.  
          
          
             The Fool Laughs.  
             Fool. Ha, ha, ha, Dreams, Ships and Water has  
          
          
             been your ruine.  
             Prin. You Villain, do you laugh at my misery?  
          
          
             She gives him a Box of the Ear.  
             Fool. O, do not beat me, your Sailer's alive yet.  
             Prin. Did not you tell me he was dead?  
          
          
             Fool. Yes, but I did not tell you his Body is dead,  
          
          
             but his Joys are dead.  Prin.   
          
          
             Scen. VIII. The PRESENCE. 79  
          
          
             Prin. Is he alive then?  
             Fool. He is alive, but talks as madly, I dare not  
          
          
             say, as foolishly as you do. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE VIII.  
             A Scaffold and Block for one to be beheaded. Enter the  
             Guard, Jaylor and Prisoner; as also a grave Man as  
          
          
             his Father; the People staring upon them. The Prison-  
             er being upon the Scaffold, bows down gracefully to the  
             Assembly, and then speaks thus.  
             Sailer.  
              VV Orthy Spectators, although I am a Stranger  
             by Birth, yet I am as a Native, being a  
             loving Subject, and humble servant of your Sove-  
             raign the Princess; but Fortune which takes more de-  
             light in Variety, then Justice, has not only toss'd me  
             from Climate to Climate; and Nation to Nation, but  
             from Happiness to Misery, from Misery to Happiness,  
             and from Happiness to Misery again; and yet my life  
             will end happily; for I shall be a Sacrifice on the Altar  
          
          
             of Love, which is such an Honour, that not any wor-  
          
          
             thy person would refuse to repine at; for all true Lo-  
             vers will bear up my Hearse with Sighs, cover it with  
             Tears, and intomb me in their Memory.  
          
          
              Upon   
          
          
          
             80 The PRESENCE. Act IV.  
          
          
             Upon this Speech the People begin to murmur; then the  
          
          
             grave Man steps up and speaks.  
          
          
             Worthy Spectators, This Person which is here ready  
          
          
             to die for Love, (yet not for the Love you imagine)  
             is no wayes capable of Marrying your Princess; for  
             this Person is not only a Woman, but a Princess her  
             self; being Daughter to the Emperor of Persia, who for  
             Love hath wilfully banished her self from her Father's  
          
          
             Court and Empire: My Wife was her Governness,  
             God rest her Soul; she being dead, and I her Guar-  
          
          
             dian, did love this Princess as my own Child; and  
             knowing her design was not to be alter'd, have attended  
             her, both in her Disguise and Travels; but your Prin-  
             cess imagining her a Man, being a Mans Clothes, has  
             unfortunately fallen in Love with her, which has been  
             the cause both of our trouble and discover: But I  
          
          
             hope this Nation is more just then to murder an inno-  
          
          
             cent Princess, that has not committed any fault either  
          
          
             to the People or their Soveraign.  
          
          
             The People Cry,  
          
          
             Long live the Princess, remove her, and conveigh  
             her to the Emperor.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. IX. The PRESENCE. 81  
          
          
             SCENE IX.  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Conversant and Observer, with Lady Quick-  
             wit, and Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Conversant.  
              L Ord, they say, there's such a noise about the Place  
             where the Sailer should be executed, as it's fear'd  
             there will be some mutiny or uproar amongst the  
          
          
             People.  
             Quick. Faith, the Emperor would be justly served, if  
          
          
             there were a Rebellion against him, so it might not be  
             a danger to his Daughter.  
          
          
             Self. I did not believe the Princess would be so  
             patient as she is.  
          
          
             Obs. O, the less anger she shews the more malice is  
             inclos'd.  
          
          
             Quick. She is too Vertuous to bear malice to her  
          
          
             Father.  
          
          
             Conv. But it is said, Love and Ambition know no  
          
          
             Kindred.  
             Enter Mr. Mode.  
             Mode. Ladies, yonder is the strangest accident that  
          
          
             ever was.  
          
          
             Self. Lord! what strange accident?  
             Mode. The Sailer is prov'd a Woman, and the Wo-  
             man is proved a Princess, Daughter to the Persian  
          
          
             Emperor.  
              Y  Obs.   
          
          
          
             82 The PRESENCE. Act. IV.  
          
          
             Obs. What, has the Princess been in Love with a  
             Woman?  
          
          
             Mode. Yes.  
          
          
             Quick. Pray, Monsieur Mode, tell us how she was  
             known to be a Woman, and who made the discovery?  
          
          
             Mode. Why thus it was. When this Lady in  
             Sailer's Clothes was mounted on the Scaffold, and had  
             made a very witty Speech; there steps up an ancient  
             Man, and made a Speech, wherein, he told the People,  
             She was a Woman, and Daughter to the Emperor of  
             Persia, and that he was a Noble Man of Persia, who  
             had travel'd with her; for by reason his Wife, who  
             was dead, had been Governess to the Lady, he having  
             no Children, was as fond of the Princess, as if she had  
             been his own Child; and seeing her pine away for Love,  
             and her beloved gone, or rather banished the Empire,  
             she resolving to follow him, and to endeavour to find  
             him, and that all his Perswasions could not prevail, he  
             (although in years) did travel with her, to be both her  
             Guide, Counsellor and Guardian. Whereupon, all  
             the People shouted for Joy, and cried out, Carry her  
             to the Emperor, Carry her to the Emperor; So both  
             she and the old Man are carried before the Emperor,  
             but what will be the Event, I cannot tell.  
          
          
             Self. For God's sake, Quick-wit, let us go to the  
             Princess, and tell her this.  
          
          
             Quick. We shall not need, for she will have News  
             of it before we come, and will be as sad that the Sailer  
             is a Woman, as if he had been hang'd. Enter.  
          
          
             Scen. X. The PRESENCE. 83  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Spend-all  
             Spend. The Sailer is prov'd a Woman.  
             Conv. That we have heard.  
             Spend. But you have not heard that she has been  
             with the Emperor, and that he seems to be in Love  
          
          
             with her in her Sailer's Clothes.  
          
          
             Obs. I would be a strange cross Caper, if he should  
             marry the Sailer, for whom his Daughter was dying,  
             and mad for love.  
          
          
             Spend. Certainly, he seem'd strangely to alter with  
             her Presence.  
          
          
             Self. Come Quick-wit, let us go and see how our  
             Lady the Princess takes this.  
          
          
             Exeunt Ladies, Men Solus.  
          
          
             Obs. But can the Emperor be so suddenly in Love?  
          
          
             Spend. Love makes no stay, nor takes Counsel.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE X.  
             Enter Princess and the Ladies.  
             Quick-wit.  
              B Ut Madam, can your Highness be well pleas'd,  
             that the Sailer is prov'd a Woman, and that the  
          
          
             Emperor should lover her so, as to profess, he will Marry  
             her if she agree?  
          
          
             Prin. Yes, for though the Emperor my Father was  
              unjust   
          
          
          
             84 The PRESENCE. Act. V.  
          
          
             unjust to me, I cannot, nor never shall be undutiful to  
             him.  
             Self. But is your Melancholy passion of Love past?  
             Prin. My Melancholy is past, but not my Love;  
             for that will live so long as I shall live, and will remain  
             pure in my Soul, when my body is dead and turn'd  
             to dust.  
          
          
             Quick. Your Highness is a miracle of duty and con-  
          
          
             stancy in Love, although the last is but a Dream.  
             Prin. Many Dreams are Prophetical. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT V. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter the Mother of the Maids, Enter also Mr. Mode  
          
          
             and Spend-all.  
             Spend-all.  
              H Ave you heard the News?  
             Mode. What News?  
             Spend. Why, the Sailer that was a Man, and  
          
          
             the Man that was proved a Lady, and the Lady a  
          
          
             Princess, is now proved no Lady, but is a Man again,  
             and a Sailer.  
             Moth. How so?  
          
          
             Spend. How so? why even as the Man that could  
          
          
             change himself into a Wolf, and from a Wolf into a  
             man again; so the Sailer has the art to make himself a  
          
          
             Man, or VVoman when he pleases.  
              Mode.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The PRESENCE. 85  
             Mode. I would he could teach all the Court this  
          
          
             art.  
             Moth. The gods forbid; for if all you Gentlemen  
          
          
             should be Women, what would my pritty birds do  
             for Courtly Servants.  
          
          
             Spend. Why, they might convert themselves into  
             Men, and then there would be a better agreement a-  
             mongst us; for when we are Women, we shall be kinder  
             to them, when they are Men, then they are to us now  
             they are Women.  
          
          
             Mode. But what would your old Lady do, if you  
             were a Woman?  
          
          
             Spend. Faith, as well as she doth now.  
          
          
             Mode. But let us leave our talking, and go to the  
          
          
             Sailer, to learn this Art.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter the Princess and the Sailer in a Prince's Habit,  
          
          
             Enter also the Fool.  
             Sailer.  
              M Y sweet and dear Mistress, what will you do?  
             Shall I have no fruition, but still woo?  
             Prin. My noble Love and Servant give me leave,  
             That I in sport my Father may deceive.  
             Fool. God's-body, in the time you deceive your  
          
          
             Father, you deceive your self; for he will take his plea-  
          
          
             sure before you.  Z  Sail.   
          
          
          
             86 The PRESENCE. Act V.  
          
          
             Sail. Madam, the Fool speaks truth.  
          
          
             Prin. Yes, according to appetite, but not accor-  
             ding to chast love.  
          
          
             Fool. Lady, you speak extravagantly, talking of  
             Chast Love, when as never Lover was Chast, for they  
             commit Adultery either in Mind or Body.  
          
          
             Prin. I will have you whipt, if you disgrace pure  
             Love with the name of Adultery.  
          
          
             Fool. You are not a fit Judge, being a Woman; but  
          
          
             I will have the Prince my Judge: Sir, do not I deserve  
          
          
             a reward for all my good service, had you been so as  
             you are, had not I play'd my part?  
             Sail. I grant it, and will plead in your behalf,  
          
          
             Prin. I speak not against your good service, but your  
             foolish arguments.  
          
          
             Fool. They are doubly wise that can speak well, and  
             do well; but now I will give you Politick Counsel:  
             But first, you must give me Lands; secondly, Moneys;  
             thirdly, you must give me a great Office; and lastly,  
             you must make me a great Lord.  
          
          
             Prin. A great Fool, you mean.  
          
          
             Fool. I am that without your making.  
          
          
             Prin. But where is the Politick Counsel you would  
          
          
             give me?  
             Fool. I marry, there is the business; the Counsel is,  
             That first the Prince must declare himself, then you may  
             Marry, and then whining Love will abate, and then  
             with God's blessing you may soon come to disagree.  
              Prin.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The PRESENCE. 87  
          
          
             Prin. And you are a Knave truly.  
             Sail. Mistress, I do approve of the Fool's Counsel,  
          
          
             as to make my self known to the Emperor; but the  
             way or manner how, is not consider'd as yet.  
          
          
             Fool. I have thought of that too, for your Twin.  
             Sister who is as like you as a Pea to a Pea,(whom with my  
             Rhetorick I got the Jaylor to take your place and habit  
             in prison) is now the Emperor's admired Mistress, and he  
             dotes as much on her, as the Princess on you; and if you  
             discover your self to the Emperor, he would be a joy-  
             ful Man, for now he is afraid to Marry, fearing to  
          
          
             displease the Princess; but hoping the Princess will con-  
          
          
             sent to his Marriage if he consent to hers, it will make  
             an even cafe, and both will be pleased.  
             Sail. Well Fool, for once your Counsel shall take  
          
          
             place.  
             SCENE III.  
             Enter Mother of the Maids, Lady Quick-wit, and  
          
          
             Self-conceit.  
          
          
             Mother.  
          
          
              VV Ell, Ladies, you're obliged to me.  
             Quick. For what?  
             Moth. For speaking a good word to your Lovers,  
             Mr. Conversant, and Mr. Observer; for if it had not been  
          
          
             for me, they would not have Married you.  Self.   
          
          
          
             88 The PRESENCE. Act V.  
          
          
             Self. You speak in our behalf! why, you cannot  
          
          
             speak two words of sense in any Cause.  
             Quick. If you have such a powerful Perswasion, why  
             do not you get your other Daughters, Wanton and  
             Wagtail, Husbands?  
             Moth. Why so, I shall when their Lovers Wives  
             are dead, and in the mean time they please themselves.  
             Enter Conversant and Observer.  
             Quick. Servant, the Mother says, that her Rhetorick  
             and Friendship hath perswaded you to Marry us.  
             Conv. Your Merit, not her Rhetorick or Friendship,  
             could prevail with us.  
             Obs. Faith, Mother, your Rhetorick would rather  
             lose a Cause, then obtain a Suit.  
             Enter Wanton.  
             Want. Do you hear the News?  
             Quick. What News?  
             Want. Why, the Sailer is proved a Prince.  
             Self. What Prince?  
          
          
             Want. The Emperor of Persia's younger Son, who  
             was stollen away by a Noble Man of Persia, with his  
             Sister, they being both Twins, and the Emperor being  
          
          
             fond of this Son, his elder Son (this Prince's Brother)  
          
          
             designed to destroy him; which the Noble Man per-  
             ceiving, put himself and the two Princes to the trust of  
             a Master of a Ship of his Empire, and disguised them  
             both as Sailers; and when the Prince was to be behea-  
          
          
             ded, the Fool did corrupt the Jaylor to take the Sister  
          
          
              in   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The PRESENCE. 91  
          
          
             in the Room of her Brother, and by that means they  
          
          
             were both saved.  
             Enter Wagtail.  
             Wagt. There's such Mirth and Joy with the Empe-  
          
          
             ror and Princess, as never was the like, through the  
          
          
             mistake between the Prince, and the Princess his Sister.  
             Enter a Gentleman.  
          
          
             Gent. Getnlemen and Ladies, you must all prepare  
          
          
             for the solemnity of the Marriage of the Prince of Persia,  
             and our Princess.  
          
          
             Conv. Doth not the Emperor Marry the Princess of  
          
          
             Persia?  
          
          
             Gent. Yes, but that Marriage will be more private.  
             Convers. Then Ladies, it will be our Duties, if the  
             Emperor and the Princess will give leave, That we ac-  
             company the Prince and Princess Bridals, with ours.  
             Self. I shall agree.  
             Quick. And so shall I.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
             Enter Fool and his Love.  
             Fool.  
              C Ome, the Princess has given leave, that we shall  
          
          
             Marry when she Marries; but you must wash  
          
          
             your face and hands very clean.  
          
          
             Maid. But washing will not make them white.  
              A a  Fool.   
          
          
          
             92 The PRESENCE. Act V.  
          
          
             Fool. That is true; for water or any thing else cannot  
             change their Natural Colour,but a pair of white Gloves  
          
          
             will hide your black hands, and a Mask will hide your  
          
          
             foul Face; for you shall appear at the Wedding as a  
             Mascarado.  
             Maid. O the Lord! I shall fright the Princess.  
             Fool. I pray God you do not fright me, and 'tis no  
             matter for frighting the Princess, for she has been used  
             to be frighted of late days. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
          
          
             Enter Princess as a Bride, and the Prince as a Bridegroom  
          
          
             sitting under a State.  
          
          
             Enter also Conversant and Quick-wit, Observer and  
             Self-conceit, as Brides and Bridegrooms, and all the  
             rest of the Court.  
          
          
             Then the Prince, and Princess and the rest of the Company,  
             dance a Ball after the French fashion; and after this  
          
          
             there is an Anti-Mask presented to the Prince and  
             Princess.  
          
          
              SCENES.   
          
          
             SCENES.  
          
          
              T Hese Scenes were design'd to be put into the Presence;  
          
          
             but by reason I found they would make that Play too  
             long, I thought it requisite to Print them by themselves.  
          
          
             SCENE I.  
             Enter Mr. Buyer, and Mr. Seller.  
          
          
              S ELLER. Will you buy my Ward?  
          
          
             Buy. Yes, if you will take a reasonable Summ:  
          
          
             but having cut down all his Woods, dissolved all the  
          
          
             iron stone, dig'd deep in his Coal-pits, and Lead, and  
          
          
             Copper Mines, let Leases of his Lands, plowed all  
          
          
             his Meadows, Pastures, and Parks; to ask Twenty  
             thousand pounds, is unconscionable!  
             Sell. Come, come, you will find enough in the  
          
          
             Estate to make it worth your Money, if you should  
          
          
             do no other thing then sow or plant Ode; and when  
             you have made the best of his Estate, you may have  
              Bb  a good   
          
          
          
             94 SCENES Scen. II, III.  
             a good Summ of Money for his Marriage.  
          
          
             Buy. Well, I will venture; you shall have Twenty  
             thousand pounds Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter Mr. Underward, and Diogenes his Man.  
          
          
             Diogenes.  
              S ir, so soon as your Father's breath was out of  
             his body, you were beg'd, and now you are sold.  
             Under. Who hath bought me?  
             Diog. Faith, a Man that looks as if he would search  
             into your Estate.  
             Under. I believe he will find it faint and weak.  
             Diog. That little strength it hath, he will fetch out, I  
          
          
             warrant you. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
             Enter two Men-Servants, viz. Diogenes and another.  
          
          
             Man.  
              I  Hear thy Master is Married.  
             Diog. Yes, the more is the pity.  
             Man. What kind of Woman is she, he hath Married?  
             Diog. You might have asked what kind of Beast  
             she is.  
              Man.   
          
          
             cozen, or rob to maintain their Riots.  
          
          
             Scen. III. SCENES. 95  
          
          
             Man. Why, is she so Homely ?  
          
          
             Diog. She is so ugly.  
          
          
             Man. How doth your Master behave himself to her?  
             Diog. As a young Man should do, never comes  
             neer her; and hates not only the sight of her, but all  
             those that have seen her.  
          
          
             Man. Why, then he should hate thee.  
          
          
             Diog. Faith, he loves me the worse for it.  
          
          
             Man. Is he not Melancholy?  
          
          
             Diog. He hath been; but he finds that Melancholy  
             will not mend his ruined Fortune, but that it will help  
             to make it worse; besides, it impairs his Health, and  
             torments his Mind; wherefore, he hath cast off all  
             grief, care and sorrow, and intends to let Nature loose,  
             and please himself, as much as his small Estate will give  
             way to.  
          
          
             Mode. You may grow rich, if your Master grows  
          
          
             deboist.  
          
          
             Diog. 'Tis true, all Servants thrive best with deboist  
          
          
             Masters; but they must have Riches answerable to  
          
          
             their Debauchery, or else their Servants will sooner  
             get Rope to hang them, then an Estate to maintain  
             them; because all Debauchery is expensive; and if their  
             Masters have nothing of their own to spend, their De-  
             bauchery must be maintained at the charge of others,  
             and not of their own; and few will give an allowance  
          
          
             for Debauchery; wherefore, they must either shirk,  
          
          
             cozen, or rob to maintain their Riots.  
              Man.   
          
          
          
             96 SCENES. Scen. IV  
          
          
             Man. But thy Master hath all his Lands still; his  
             Guardian could not take them: away  
          
          
             Diog. No, but they have taken out the heart of his  
             Lands; for they will produce nothing but brakes and  
             briars, moss and sing; and if any be good, as I believe  
             there is none , it must be fold to pay Debts, which  
             his Father left to be paid, and Portions younger  
             Children.  
          
          
             Man. I doubt they will come short of their ex-  
             pectation.  
          
          
             Diog. So short; afro have nothing. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E IV.  
             Enter Mother, and Lady Bashful.  
             Mother.  
          
          
              I  Wonder you should be so Bashful as to make all  
             the Court believe you are a kind of a Changeling,  
          
          
             and a simple Fool !  
             Bash. Why, how do I behave my self? I neither  
          
          
             behave my self immodestly, nor uncivilly.  
          
          
             Moth. Nay, I am not by to see you; but I am told  
          
          
             you stand amongst Company like a stone Statue, with-  
             out life, sence or motion.  
          
          
             Bash. 'Tis true, I do not hang upon Mens shoulders,  
          
          
             nor lean upon their breasts, nor suffer my self to be im-  
             braced in Mens arms; neither do I jump to fit upon the  
          
          
              Ta-   
          
          
             Scen. IV. SCENES. 97  
          
          
             Tables, nor lie wantooly upon the Carpets on the  
          
          
             ground, nor run about after a wild manner, pinching  
             one shoving another, pulling a third, imbracing a  
             fourth, dancing a piece of a dance with a fifth ; nor do  
             I make mouths upon one Man , then wink my eye  
             upon another, giving my hand unto a third Man to  
          
          
             kiss.  
             Moth. Why, you are thought so simple,as that you  
          
          
             cannot speak three words of sence.  
             Bash. I had rather be thought a Fool for saying no-  
             thing, then be proved a Fool for speaking Non-sence;  
             and of the two evils , it were better to be a silent Fool,  
             then a prating Fool ; I am sure the silent Fool will of-  
             fend the least; but for my part I cannot perceive any  
             great store of Wit that there is amongst them, unless  
             it be Wit to sing Quaveringly , and talk loud, or to  
             rail under the priviledg of Rallery, or to be a Buffoon  
             to cause ridiculous Laughter ; or to talk impudently or  
             wantonly; but the truth is, that some think themselves  
             Politicians, and talk of State-affairs, yet understand  
             no more of Government then the post, but would make  
             the Common-wealth like their Chambers, where every  
             thing is out of order, and what they are to use, they  
             are always to seek ; they would have no decent Or-  
             ders, nor strict Laws, but that every one might do  
             what they like best; nor would they have Watches set,  
             unless it were to guard Vices , loose Carriages, and  
          
          
             wanton dalliances ; and others, which think to prove  
              Cc  them-   
          
          
          
             98 SCENES. Scen. IV.  
          
          
             themselves Wits, dispute of Love and Honour, and the  
             Conversations of Souls, and before their Disputes are  
             ended, they draw themselves quite from their Principle  
             into a dark Labyrinth of Non-sence , then run about  
             With senceless words until they be out of breath, which  
             makes them at last hold their peace.  
             Moth. But I would have them know, you are not a  
             Fool.  
             Bash. Why, if they should think me a Wit, al-  
             though I were none, it would increase their envy, and  
             so they might make scandalous reports,which I perceive  
             they are apt to do of one another; whereas now their  
             opinion of my ignorant simplicity satisfies their spite.  
             Moth. What came you to Court for , only to be  
             thought a Fool?  
             Bash. No, I came to learn Wisdom, and to improve  
             my Understanding ; and if I can meet no Vertue,  
             Worth, nor Honour to take Examples from, yet I  
             may observe the Follies, so as to shun them where or  
             whensoever I meet them ; and though ignorance is  
             thought a defect, either in Nature, or Breeding, yet it  
             is not accounted a crime, nor a deadly fin; and as long  
             as they cannot think by my Carriage I am base, wan-  
             ton, or wicked, I do not care how they think of my  
             Wit or Bashfulness Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. V. SCENES. 99  
          
          
             S C E N E V.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward and Diogenes his Man.  
             Diogenes.  
              S Ir, here was a Gentlewoman to visit your Wor-  
             ship to day.  
             Under. I am glad I was abroad.  
          
          
             Diog. I wonder your Worship is not rather sorry  
          
          
             you were abroad, because you miss'd her Company.  
             Under. Therefore, I am glad, because I would not  
             have her Company.  
             Diog. Many Gentlemen spend most of their time to  
             compass the Company of fair Ladies, and you strive  
          
          
             to shun them.  
          
          
             Under. Faith, I have taken a surfeit of the Sex, and  
             now I wonder how rational Men can spend the most  
             part of their life in foolish Complements, false Praises,  
             and Amorous Imbraces, abjecting their thoughts, when  
             they might be elevated to a Speculation as high as  
             the upper Region, where they might be illuminated by  
             the Sun of Knowledge, from whence are spread beams  
             of Understanding , by which are produced profitable  
             Arts, and beneficial Sciences, delightful Fancies, and  
             wise Prudence; besides, their life might be imployed in  
             Heroick actions, whereby they might get an Honour-  
             able renown,and not Female Dalliances ; might conquer  
             Nations, not betray simple Women; and might govern  
              Worlds   
          
          
          
             i SGENES &mNL  
          
          
             Worlds, not let foolish Women govern them; Thus  
             Men might be like gods, and being Amorous, they  
             become like Beasts. Exit.  
             Diog. He thought the Females, Angels, a day since,  
             and perhaps will think them so again a day hence.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward, his two Brothers , and  
             two Sisters.  
             Under. Brothers and Sisters, you are welcome.  
             Sit. We are come to complain, for if we cannot  
             have our Portions, how shall we live?  
             Under. How shall you live ! why Sisters you may  
             live by your Natural Gifts.  
             Sist. What are those?  
             Under. Your Youth, Beauty, and Wit.  
             Sist. Alas Brother, those will gain us nothing, so  
             long as we are poor.  
             Under. No, but they will gain you something, if you  
             turn Whores, or 'trade as the Venetian Curtizans, who  
             make by those Gifts a great Revenue.  
             Sist. Heaven bless us Brother ! would you have our  
             Misfortune the cause of our Infamy ?  
             Under. Heaven hath blest very few from it, for Mis-  
             fortunes in this Age are accounted the greatest crimes.  
             Sist. They may be accounted Crimes , but we will  
             not make them so ; for though unconscionable Men  
             have ruined our Estate , and caused us to be poor, yet  
             we will never defame our Ancestors.  
             Under. I believe you will when necessity importunes  
              you,   
          
          
             Scen. V. S C E N E S. 101  
             you, Flattery perswades you , Gallantry allures you,  
             Title incites you,and Power commands you.  
          
          
             Sist. No, no, Brother, we have two Antidotes a-  
          
          
             gainst them, which will secure us against those Infections.  
          
          
             Under. What Antidotes?  
          
          
             Sist. Religion and Honour.  
          
          
             Under. I doubt your Antidotes will be too weak.  
          
          
             Broth. And how shall we live Brother?  
          
          
             Under. Marry, Brothers, you must live by your  
             good Qualities.  
          
          
             Broth. What are those good Qualities?  
          
          
             Under. Why, to be industrious Pimps, nimble Pick-  
             pockets, cheating Shirks, and couragious Robbers.  
          
          
             Broth. These Qualities are base, and will sooner  
             bring us its the Gallows, then any way enrich us.  
          
          
             vnder. Why, the Gallows were a good Fortune;  
             for when you are hang'd,you will have no use for Riches,  
             and it will end all your miseries.  
          
          
             Broth. But Hanging is a death which is only inflicted  
             upon unworthy persons for doing the basest acts.  
          
          
             Under. Death is all one , although the ways be  
             various.  
          
          
             Broth. But fame and infamy is not all one.  
          
          
             Under. That is as pleases Fortune or Chance; for  
             many times the most wicked, base, and unworthiest  
             persons live with as great renown , as the most pious,  
             vertuous and honourable; nay, many times the worst  
             are Deified, and the best vilified ; but Brothers and  
          
          
              D d  Sist-   
          
          
          
             102 S C E N E S Scen. V.  
          
          
             Sisters, to speak seriously to you, I have nothing to give  
             you but my Counsel ; for the Land my Father left, is  
          
          
             intail'd , so as I cannot sell an acre of it, and it is so  
             impoverished and out of heart, as it will yeild no pro-  
          
          
             fit; nor can I Mortgage it, for none will venture their  
             Money on it, and I am not only ruined in my Estate,  
             but by Marriage, Marrying a Wife which I was forced  
             to take without Portion, my Guardian possessing that  
             Portion she had, and I only her ill-favoured body, and  
             ill-natur'd mind; the one displeasing my sences, the other  
             disquieting my life. Thus, although you complain, yet  
             'tis I who suffer most, and am forced to be content;  
             and since it is not in my power to help you, let me  
             advise you; As for you my two Sisters, get into some  
             honourable service; for though you were born and bred  
             to command, yet your poverty must make your practise  
             to obey : Wherefore, be humble to your Mistresses,  
             diligent in your Offices, faithful to your trust, constant  
             to Vertue, and pious to Heaven, and the gods will  
             reward you wich good Husbands, who will love you,  
             defend you, and provide for you: And as for you, my  
             two Brothers, go to the Wars, and be Soldiers, it is an  
             honourable Profession, and only fit for Gentlemen; and  
             what esteem and respect you are likely to lose by your  
             poverty, let your gallant actions advance; improve  
             your Fortunes by your Valour, and let Honour be the  
             ground upon which you build.  
             Broth. But if we be lamed in the Wars, what shall  
             we do then ?  Under.   
          
          
             Scen. VI. S C E N E S. 103  
          
          
             Under. Why, then you must beg upon Crutches;  
             for States do as many particular persons do, which is,  
             when they have had the service, forget the reward; for  
             though States are commonly so charitable, or rather  
          
          
             Politick, to make Wars to imploy busie Natures, and  
          
          
             to maintain younger Brothers, and Sons of Noble  
             Families, which have small Fortunes , lest they should  
             grow factious, and become mutinous through poverty;  
             yet when they are made incapable of doing either  
             good or harm by their wounds and hurts , they have  
             received in their Service , they take no care how they  
             shall be disposed of, nor what misery they are exposed  
             to; yet this must not retard Gentleman, for it is more  
             Honour to beg with their wounds got in their Coun-  
             try's service,then to live in base luxur; for Fame is not  
             gotten by Sloth, nor Honour maintained by Riot.  
             Exeunt Brothers and Sisters.  
          
          
             SCENE VI.  
             Enter Diogenes to his Mater.  
             Monsieur Underward.  
          
          
              VV Here have you been, that you are out of the  
             way when I should employ you?  
             Diog. Sir, my Lady sent for me.  
             Under. For what?  
             Diog. To examine me what Mistress you had ; also,  
          
          
              she   
          
          
          
             104 S C E N E S. Scen. IV  
          
          
             she told me, that if you would not use her as a Wife,  
             she would make use of some other Man as a Husband.  
             Under. Surely I am out of danger of being a Cuckold,  
             for she is so ill-favoured, no Man will come near her.  
             Diog. Pardon me Sir; for if she hath not Beauty to  
          
          
             enamour Lovers, yet she may buy Lovers.  
          
          
             Under. Her ill-favouredness is beyond all covetousness.  
          
          
             Diog. O no Sir! for were she the Devil, she may be  
             imbraced for Money.  
          
          
             Under. Not under a vast summ.  
          
          
             Diog. Yes faith, Sir, there are Men of all prices, as  
             there are Women, even from the two-peny Whore to  
             the thousand pound Lady ; so poor and needy Shirks  
             are at a low price , when a flattering Gallant must be  
             maintained at a high rate.  
          
          
             Under. Why then, Tom, there is no assurance of the  
          
          
             Female Sex, whether they be homely, ugly, hand-  
          
          
             some, beautiful, young, or old, unless Poverty be  
          
          
             joyned with Deformity.  
             Diog. Nay, faith Sir, thole that will be Whores,  
          
          
             will make a shift to get a Knave some way or other,be  
          
          
             they never to poor, or old ill-favoured, or deformed.  
             Exeunt.  
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. VII. SCENES. 105  
          
          
             S C E N E VII.  
             Enter Two Gentlemen  
             First Gentleman.  
              F Aith, the Lady-Bashful is a mute Wit.  
             2 Gent. laughs. Ha, ha, ha, how can that be ! is  
          
          
             it possible to be a mute Wit?  
             1 Gent. Why, Wit lies inthe brain , and not in the  
          
          
             tongue; for the hand as often expresseth Wit in the  
          
          
             Working of Arts, as the Tongue by discoursing; and  
             an ingenious Art is as good a Copy of Wit, as Ver-  
             fes, or Prose, and shews as much Fancy.  
          
          
             2 Gent. So you will make a Shoo-maker as good a  
             Wit as a Poet.  
          
          
             1 Gent. No ; yet he that invented Shooes first,exprest  
             as much Wit, as he that invents a Tale, or a Ro-  
             mance, or makes a Copy of Verses; besides, Arts are  
             to be valued according to the use , or Curiosity, as  
             Tales, Romances, Simulizing Descriptions, distinguish-  
             ing Fancy, Numbers, Rhimes, Language, significant  
             Words, and good Sense; so for Arts in their subtile  
          
          
             contrivances, curious workings, neat joynings and in-  
          
          
             terlayings, well-tempering, equal matching,and smooth  
          
          
             pollishing: But howsoever, she is a mute Courtier, be-  
             cause all Courtiers are full of talk, and she speaks sel-  
             dome, and what she- says, is to purpose; when the rest,  
          
          
             for the most part, neither speak truth, sense, or reason;  
          
          
              E e  for   
          
          
          
             106 SCENES. Scen. VIII  
          
          
             for Flattery is dissembling and Complements are vain  
          
          
             idle and sensless. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE VIII.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Civility, and the Lord Loyalty, at at  
             her House.  
          
          
             Lord Loyalty.  
              M Adam, when were you at Court?  
             Civil. Not his Week, my Lord.  
             Loyal. Are not you acquainted with Madam Bashful?  
             Civil. Yes, very well, my Lord ; and she comes of-  
             ten to visit me , which I take for a great favour, by  
             reason she is so reserv'd.  
             Loyal. By Jupiter, she hath a great Wit, although  
             all the Court say she is a Fool.  
             Civil. O, my Lord, whosoever says, she is a Fool  
             is much mistaken, and knows her not, but she is Bash-  
             ful, which makes her not seem what she is, by reason she  
             cannot express her self, being out of Countenance.  
             Loyal. Faith, if you will have my opinion, I think  
             she is crafty, and will not express her self to idle persons;  
             but pray Madam, when she comes to see you, let me  
             have notice of it.  
          
          
             Civil. I shall, my Lord. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. IX. S C E N E S. 107  
          
          
             SCENE IX.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Underward, and Tom Diogenes his  
             Man, his Maffer shews him Gold.  
          
          
             Monsieur Underward.  
              L Ook here, Tom!here is Five hundred-pounds I have  
             won at Dice and Cards !  
             Tom. I marry Sir, if your Worship could win as  
             much every day, you would become, in a short time,  
          
          
             a rich Man again.  
             Under. I had rather be poor, then be rich by such  
          
          
             base unmanly ways.  
          
          
             Tom. Why Sir ? it is lawful gain, if you won it  
             fairly.  
          
          
             Under. I will tell thee Tom , Gamesters are only  
             Fortune's Pickpockets, and Cut-purses, meer Cheats;  
             for they neither win their Winnings by Industry nor  
             Merit, but by Fortune's power , which unjustly gives  
             her Favourites leave, nay authorize them to plunder  
             all they can lay hands on , without any conscience or  
             remorse; but had they been subject to Pallas, they  
             would have been hang'd, drawn and quarter'd; for  
             Temperance would have accused them, and Prudence  
             would have pleaded against them, Justice condemned  
          
          
             them, and Fortitude have them executed; or had they  
             lived in Honours Court, Right and Truth would have  
             disgraced them , courteous Civility despised them,  
          
          
              Grati-   
          
          
          
             108 S C E N E S. Scen. IX.  
          
          
             Gratitude exclaimed against them,Honourable Industry  
             scorned them, Heroick Courage have fought against  
             them, Noble Hospitality refused to entertain them, and  
             Royal Generofity banished them ; and they never can  
             get near a good heart, and a well tempered brain, for  
             the Muses and the Graces abhor them, and make out-  
             works against them; for Reason and Tranquility cast  
             up Trenches to keep them out, and Judgment stands a  
             Centinel to discover them , lest they should approach  
             unawares; and Understanding commands the Guard  
             will keep the Postern-door, and Peace governs the Fort,  
             so as no Gamester can enter.  
             Tom. Your Worship may condemn the way you  
             got your Money by; but I hope your Worship will  
             not condemn the Gold you wonne.  
             Under. Why, Tom, it hath neither sence nor life.  
             Tom. And it please your Worship, it puts life into  
          
          
             those that have it, and it runs as nimbly about, as if it  
             were a living Creature; and I believe you will find it  
             for active, as that your Worship will scarce hold it.  
          
          
             Under. No, but Tom, I will direct it.  
          
          
             Tom. Which of your Sences shall direct it?  
             Under. Why, none of my Sences; for it shall be di-  
          
          
             rected by my Reason.  
          
          
             Tom. Your Worships Reason makes no use of it,  
             but your Appetite.  
             Under. Why, Tom, Reason lives in Appetite.  
             Tom. Very seldom; for the chief Rules are Excess  
          
          
              and   
          
          
             Scen. IX. S C E N E S. 109  
          
          
             and Riot, Reason comes but as a Bishop goeth round  
             his Diocess, once in his life time , but many times  
             never.  
             Under. Tom, you are better acquainted with the brutes  
             then I; but understand the Vices of the Sences best.  
             Tom. Say not Vices, Sir, but the Natural Qualities;  
          
          
             for there is no Vice in Nature.  
             Under. Yes, that is a Vice in Nature, that destroys,  
             especially that which displeases ; indeed the Vices in  
             Nature are Defects of Defects; and grievances and  
             pains are caused by Imperfections, and Dislikes by De-  
          
          
             fects; and whosoever gives himself over to Sensuality,  
          
          
             hath an Imperfection in the Soul , and a Defect in the  
             Understanding.  
             Tom. Your Worship speaks as if you were fallen  
             out with the Ladies Sences, or rather as if you did hate  
             them.  
             Under. Why, Tom, the Sences are Witches, very  
             Sorcerers, which inchant the Life in the Castle of trou-  
             blesome vexation, or Metamorphise Men into Beasts.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              F f    SCENE   
          
          
          
             110 SCENES. Scen. X.  
          
          
             SCENE X.  
             Enter the Lord Loyalty, and Madamoisel Bashful, as to  
             Mademoisel Civility's House.  
          
          
             Lord Loyalty.  
              S Weet, will you Entertain me for your Servant ?  
             Bash. I am not rich enough in Merit to Entertain  
             one of your Worth.  
             Loyal. I will trust your Merit , and serve you for  
             your Love.  
          
          
             Bash. My Love is Childish , and hath not wit to  
             chuse, nor strength to stand on constant ground ; but  
             totters, and staggers at every small dislike.  
          
          
             Loyal. I will serve your Youth and Beauty.  
          
          
             Bash. Your Lordship I doubt will have but 'a dull  
             and troublesome Service; for Beauty without Wit, is  
          
          
             no more then a Marble Statue; and Youth without  
          
          
             Discretion, is so wild, as it will weary you to run after  
             its Follies, or correct its Errors.  
          
          
             Loyal. Then let me serve your Wit.  
          
          
             Bash. That is so Fantastical , and changes into so  
             many shapes, and various Dresses, as it will tire your  
             Ears to listen after it, and your Patience will not en-  
             dure to keep it Company; for Wit Without Judgment  
             to order it , is more offensive, then pleasing or de-  
             lightful.  
          
          
             Loyal. Are you so civil, as neither to let me serve  
              your   
          
          
             Scen. X. S C E N E S. 111  
          
          
             your Virtue, Love, Youth, Beauty or VVit? yet  
             all your Rhetorick shall not turn me off ; for I Will  
             serve you, although it be against your will, for I never  
             knew any Lady as yet, but loved Variety of Servants,  
             to shew their Power by their Tyranny.  
             Enter Madamoisel Ill-favoured, and finds them together.  
             Ill-fav. I faith, my Lord, have I found your Lord-  
             ship but! l perceive you will chuse the youngest and  
          
          
             fairest.  
          
          
             Loyal. I should else condemn my Judgment,Madam.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. My Lord, there is an old saying, Fair and  
             Foolish.  
          
          
             Local. If you mean by Fair being Beautiful, then  
             Fair is VVit, good Nature, fweet Dispositions, rare  
             Qualities; for all good Delights and Pleasures dwell  
             with Beauty.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. O fie, my Lord! can the Delight of one  
             Sence feed all the rest ?  
          
          
             Loyal. Not; For the Mind hath no true tast but when  
             it feeds but one Sense at a time; for mix Sences make  
             imperfect Pleasures ; besides, they are as troublesome as  
             much company to a retired life ; for much Company  
             rather makes a Disorder,then a Recreation; a Confusion  
             then a Society.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. But doth your Lordship think so ?  
          
          
             Loyal. Nay, Madam, I will not dispute with your  
          
          
             Ladyship here, I will wait upon you at your Lodgings,  
             and dispute with you there.  
              Exit   
          
          
          
             112 S C E N E S Scen. X.  
          
          
             Exit the Lord Loyalty, and as he goeth out, meets  
             Madamoisel Sprightful.  
             Spight. Your Lordship's Servant.  
             Loyal. I am yours; Madam.  
             Exit Lord Loyalty.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. Oh Madan ! here I found the Lord Loyalty  
          
          
             and Madamoisel Bashful talking seriously !  
             Spight. Fie, sweet-heart, fie; it is not fit, or handsome,  
             that you should be abroad without the Mother of the  
             Maids, walking with a Man alone, and out of the  
             Court, 'tis a shame ; and let me tell you, that if the  
             Emperess should know of it, she would be very  
             angry.  
             Exit Madamoisel Bashful, without speaking a Word.  
             Ill-fav. Nay, faith, I dare answer for her talking ; for  
             on my Conscience she did not speak three words; nor  
             can she speak twenty in order ; and I dare swear she un-  
             derstands not all the Letters in the Cris-cross-row.  
             Spight. I suppose her Mother sent her to the Court,  
             to learn to discourse, and to refine her behavior, and to  
             elevate her Spirit.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. Faith, she is the dullest Creature, of a young  
          
          
             one, that ever I met with.  
             Spight. Time and Practise will improve her; and tru-  
             ly it were a Charity to instruct her.  
             Ill-fav. I would not be she that should take that pains,  
             for all the World: But where is Madamoisel Civility?  
             let us go and seek her out. Exeunt.  
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. Xl, Xll. S C E N E S. 113  
             SCENE XI.  
          
          
             Enter Madamoisel Controversie, and mother ancient  
             Court-Lady.  
             Mad. Controversie.  
              I Do not conceive Madamoisel Bashful to be so hand-  
             some, as to be admired for a Beauty ; yet most of the  
          
          
             Men seem to like her best.  
          
          
             Lady. All Men love that which is most unusual; for  
          
          
             she being so dull a young Lady , as not to delight in  
             speaking, makes her to be a singular Creature here, by  
          
          
             reason all the rest speak so much.  
             Controv. As dull as she seems, I believe she is more  
          
          
             subtile and crafty then the rest. Exeunt.  
             SCEENE XII.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward , and Tom Diogenes  
             his Man.  
             Monsieur Underward.  
          
          
              I Am so troubled with the Five hundred pounds I  
             won at Play, I know not how to dispose of them.  
          
          
             T. Diog. I can tell your Worship how you may  
             dispose of them, if you please.  
          
          
             Under. How, Tom?  
          
          
             T. Diog. Why, your Worship may give it me.  
              G g  Under.   
          
          
          
             114 S C E N E S. Scen. XII.  
          
          
             Under. You must deserve it first, or else it would be  
             a Prodigality to give beyond the Receiver's Merit.  
             T. Diog. It would be a Charity, Sir.  
             Under. No, Tom, it would prove a vanity to be-  
             stow beyond a necessity; and as long as thou hast Meat,  
             Drink, Clothes and Lodging, thou need'st not, having  
             neither Wife nor Children to provide for.  
          
          
             T. Diog. I desire it, out of an humble duty and ser-  
             vice which I owe your Worship, to release you of  
             that trouble, and to take off the heavy weight of Five  
             hundred pounds; but I perceive your Worship doth  
             by these Five hundred pounds, as Statesmen, and great  
             Officers at Court, who are always complaining of over-  
             much business and attendance, and make as if it were  
             the greatest affliction in the World to be so tormented  
             and yet would as soon dye as part with their places, nay  
             most commonly they do dye with grief, or at least live  
             in discontent, all the time they live , if they chance to  
             be put out and another put in their places.  
          
          
             Under. Now thou talkest of Offices , I will buy an  
             Office at Court with my Money; for Money won at  
             Play, is best bestowed at Court; for Vanity and Vice  
             is near a kin, and hold the longest Friendship ; and  
             though I visit the Court sometimes, yet I have no Office.  
          
          
             T. Diog. But, and it please your Worship, Five  
             hundred pounds will buy but a mean office, or Place  
             at Court; for they not their prizes high, although the  
             gains be but small; for at Court ' not only the  
              Honour   
          
          
             Scen.. XII. S C E N ES. 115  
          
          
             Honour of the place is prized, but every proud Look  
             and fantastical Garb, bawling Words, bold fronts, or  
             Courtly paths, are all prized and paid for , to the ut-  
             termost farthing.  
          
          
             Under. Well, Tom, I will make my bargain as well  
             as I can; but an Office I am resolved to have.  
          
          
             T. Diog. If your Worship were Batchellor, to be  
             an Officer in Court, might do you some service ; but  
             as you are a Married Man , I cannot perceive it will  
             benefit you much.  
          
          
             Under. Why, not a Married Man, as well as a  
             Batchellor?  
          
          
             T. Diog. O Sir, a Court-Officer sounds loud, and is  
          
          
             conceived to be noble in the Ears and Mind of a young  
          
          
             City-Virgin; and likewise with City-Widows ; but  
          
          
             with Countrey-Ladies, Court-Officers seem as gods, and  
             they have not power to deny them any request ; so that  
             a Court-Officer may get a young Heir, or a rich Wi-  
             dow, if he were a Batchellor; but being a Married Man,  
             he will be only feasted, or probably, may obtain some  
             private Meetings, or the like, which for the most part  
             is to the Courtiers loss , those private Meetings being  
             most commonly devillish chargeable.  
          
          
             Under. Well, I will try my Fortune ; who can tell  
             but that the Emperor may look graciously on me, and  
             make me a Favourite, when I am an Officer?  
          
          
             T. Diog. He may look on you with a gracious eye;  
             but I doubt your Worship will never be made a Fa-  
             vourite.  Under.   
          
          
          
             116 SCENES. Scen. XII.  
             Under. Why, Tom, as mean-deserving Men as I,have  
          
          
             been made Favourites.  
          
          
             T. Diog. The more is the pity, Sir, that great Mo-  
             narchs which sit at the Helm, and govern a Kingdom,  
             should have so weak a judgment, or such depraved af-  
             fections, as to place their chief Favours on a worthless  
          
          
             Subject.  
          
          
             Under. Why, you Rogue, do you think me a  
             worthless subject?  
          
          
             T. Diog. No, Sir; I speak when Men of mean abili-  
             ties are made Favourites ; but by your favour, Sir,  
             your Worship may be a very deserving person in your  
             self, and a fit Man for some kind of Places, Offices, or  
             Employments, and yet not fit to be a Favourite ; for a  
             Favourite must not only be Honourably born, Nobly  
             bred, and of a Rich Inheritance, to keep off Envy; but  
             he must be sweetly disposed; civilly behaved ; also of a  
             pleasing Speech, a generous Nature, a free Mind, and a  
             bountiful hand, to get Love; likewise, he must have an  
             unspotted Reputation, a just Word, upright Actions,  
             and an Heroick Spirit to win Credit ; also, he must  
             have a prudent eye, a deep Judgment to spie out his  
             Enemies, and discern his true Friends, if Favourites  
             can have true Friends ; besides, he must have undaunted  
             Courage to defend himself against mischievous spite, and  
             malicious envy; and strong party, to march and pass  
             through opposers, he must also have a ready Wit, and  
             be ingenious in Contrivances, and Politick Inventions,  
              with   
          
          
             Scen. XII. S C E N E S. 117  
          
          
             with an industrious dispatch; also, he must have an  
             oyled Tongue, both to speak for his Prince, and to his  
             Prince, for himself and his affairs : Lastly, he must best so  
             wise as to receive his Princes Commands with a dutiful  
             respect, and present his own Counsels or advice with an  
             humble demeanor, and an insinuating Countenance;  
             and when he is to plead a Suit , he must do it as if  
             it were a bounty and a Royal favour to grant it,  
             although it were an injustice to deny it : And who-  
             soever is not thus, and doth not act thus , is not fit to  
             be a Favourite; neither can a Favourite hold fast with  
             the people, nor stand sure with his Prince.  
          
          
             Under. Nay faith, you should have joyned Fortune  
             to be his Friend, or elfe your Favourite will fall; and  
             it is most often seen , that a Fool hath the best For-  
             tune; besides, if any Man were so excellent a person, as  
             you would have a Favourite, the Prince would fear  
             him, lest he might usurp his power ; or the People  
             would hate him for his Worth and Merit ; for they  
             love nothing in perfection : But if any Man could practise  
             as well as speak, thou wert the only fit Man to be a Fa-  
             vourite. But Tom, tell me how comest thou to speak so  
             wisely ?  
          
          
             T. Diog. O Master, although your Worship hath  
             a better Natural Wit, then I ; yet being old, I have  
             more experience then you ; for Time and Experience  
          
          
             is the Father and Mother of Wisdom.  
          
          
              H h  Under.   
          
          
          
             118 S C E N E S. Scen. XIII.  
          
          
             Under. Well, Tom, for all your wise discourse, I will  
             try my Fortune at Court.  
             T. Diog. But Sir, I wonder your Worship should  
             desire to be a Court-Officer, since you have been ruin-  
             ed and undone by Courtiers.  
             Under. The fitter I am to be one , to ruine another,  
          
          
             as they have ruined me. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XIII.  
          
          
             Enter the Lord Loyalty and Madamoisel Bashful, as in  
             Madamoisel Civilities House.  
          
          
             Lord Loyalty.  
              D O you say, you can love an unfortunate Man ?  
          
          
             Bash. Yes, so his Misfortunes come not through  
             his Crimes.  
          
          
             Loyal. Misfortune's are thought Crimes, and are oft-  
             ner shunned then Crimes are;for most part of the World  
             is so base, that unto Criminal Powers they will crouch,  
             creep, flatter, and sell their Liberties to them, when they  
             will exclaim against honest Misfortunes, and fly from,  
             or else will pursue them unto death , and then triumph  
             over their Graves; besides, the World will wonder that  
             you that are young and fair, should chuse an unfortunate  
             Man for a Husband.  
          
          
             Bash. My Lord, Misfortunes and Honesty in this  
             Age, are so fixt to each other , as I cannot chuse one,  
          
          
             but I must take both.  Loyal.   
          
          
             Scen. XIV. S C E N E S. 119  
          
          
             Loyal. Can you love so well, as to be ruined for my  
             sake ?  
             Bash. If you call Poverty ruine, when it's taken up  
             for Merit sake, I could be well content to entertain it,  
             and should glory in the acquaintance, and be proud of  
             the fellowship.  
          
          
             Loyal. Why then, we will never dispute of it further,  
             but Marry as soon as Conveniency will give us leave.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XIV.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Ill-favoured,Madam Spightful,Madam  
             Wagtail, and Madam Ill-natured.  
          
          
             Wagtail.  
              H Ow shall we do to break the Marriage?  
          
          
             Spight. Thus, you Wagtail may speak to some  
             of the Bed-Chamber of the Empress, and tell them as  
             a Secret, that the Lord Loyalty will for certain Marry  
             Madamoisel Bashful, and they will be so envious, espe-  
             cially Madamoisel Bragadocia, and Madamoisel Relax,  
             as they will do there endeavour with the Emperess, to  
             get her to break it.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. And I Will speak to some friends of mine to  
          
          
             that purpose.  
             Spight. And I will find Monsieur Malicious, to tell  
             the Lord Loyalty that she fits up as late as any of us,and  
              and   
          
          
          
             120 SCENES. Scen. XV.  
          
          
             and that she hath as much Company of Men late in her  
             Chamber, as any of the Maids have.  
          
          
             Wagt. But that is known to the contrary.  
          
          
             Spight. Pish, Men are apt to be jealous of the Mi-  
             stresses they intend to Marry ; and Jealousie will believe  
             any thing; also let us employ Tell-Tale.  
          
          
             Ill-natured. No faith, if she should know our design,  
             she will do us more hurt then our design good, by tel-  
             ling it; for she can conceal nothing, she cannot a Se-  
             cret, if she should die for declaring it , for when she  
             knows any thing, that she thinks is not generally known  
             she runs from Lodging to Lodging to spread it abroad.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E XV.  
             Enter Madamoisel Bashful,and Madam Civility.  
          
          
             Mad. Civility.  
              O  Madamoisel Bashful, here hath been five or six  
          
          
             Messengers one after the heels of another, to call  
             you back to the Court; and now the Mother is come  
             from the Emperess.  
          
          
             Bash. It cannot be for any Treason to the State, nor  
             to the Emperess my Mistress ; nor for any Crime against  
             my fellow-Servants, and Sisters ; and certainly they do  
             not take me for a wise Sybel to ask Counsel of.  
          
          
             Civil. They are spightfial and envious, as fearing you  
          
          
              should   
          
          
             Scen. XVI: S C E N E S. 121  
             should Marry the Lord Loyalty, who is not only one of  
             the gallantest Men, but one of the greatest in the  
             Kingdom.  
          
          
             Bash. Well, Madam, l shall take my leave of you  
             for this time, and pray find the Lord Loyalty word, I  
             am sent for to the Court in all hast; but I will rest  
             upon his favour to defend me, if I be assaulted, or to  
          
          
             receive me if I be in distress. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XVI.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Impoverished, Underward's eldest Sister,  
             Monsieur Lover, her Ladies Brother, follows her.  
          
          
             Mad. Impoverished.  
              S IR, why dod you follow me so?  
             Lover. To have you love me.  
             Impov. After what manner would you have me love  
             you ? as you are a worthy Person, or a bountiful Master,  
             a kind friend, or an amorous Lover, or for a Husband?  
          
          
             Lover. As a Lover.  
          
          
             Impov. As a Platonick Lover , or a Carnal Lover,  
          
          
             or an admiring, sighing, whining Lover, or an honest  
             Matrimonial Lover ?  
          
          
             Lover. As a Carnal Lover, and by that all manner  
             of fashion'd Lovers, or degrees of Loves, are com-  
             prehended.  
          
          
             Impov. Well, apprehend me then, and know I am  
          
          
              l i  onely   
          
          
          
             122 S C E N E S. Scen. XVI.  
          
          
             only for a Matrimonial Lover, and for no other.  
          
          
             Lover. Do you think I will Marry my Sisters wait-  
             ing Woman?  
          
          
             Impov. Why, am I the worse, for being your Sisters  
             Woman ?  
          
          
             Lover. No, not for being my Sisters Woman, be-  
             cause she is a worthy and honourable person; but for  
             being a Servant.  
          
          
             Impov. There are none who are not either Servants,  
             or Slaves by Nature, Fortune, Opinion, Necessity, or  
             Supream power; we are Slaves to the Pleasure of our  
             Sences ; to the pains and sickness of our Bodies ; to the  
             passions of our Minds ; to the necessities of Poverty ; to  
             humane Laws ; to the motions of Time ; to the Con-  
             veniency of Place; to the change of Chance; to the de-  
             crees of Fate; to the frowns of Fortune: And if you  
             are in Love with me, you are a Slave either to my  
             Beauty, Wit, Virtue, or your own evil desires; but  
             those , who can conquer themselves, are the most free,  
             since they rule their Passions , temper their Appetites,  
             order their Actions, bear their Misfortunes without  
             murmuring, endure pain patiently, fear not death, nor  
             are weary of life; and not doing thus you may be more  
             a Servant or Slave, then I; yet none are absolutely free:  
             For, although Patience, Temperance, Fortitude, Pru-  
             dence, and Industry be as Engines or Instruments, which  
             serve to break off some of our Shackles; yet they break  
             not all our Chains; for Civility, Obligations, Duty,  
          
          
              Huma-   
          
          
             Scen. XVI. S C E N E S. 123  
          
          
             Humanity, Morality, and Divinity bind us; in whic  
             bondage we ought to remain; and not only these bind  
             us, but Nature her self binds us; nay, Nature her self  
             binds and enslaves her self with Rods of pain ; by which  
             we may perceive,  
          
          
             That it is only Death which sets us free,  
          
          
             For whilst we live we are bound to Slavery.  
             Lover. But some are more noble Slaves then others  
             Impov. No truly, for those are as much enslaved that  
          
          
             are tyed with Golden Chains, as with those of Iron; or  
             whipt with silken Cords, as with those of Hemp , if  
             they are as strong to restrain them , or so knotty that  
             the smart may keep them in awe: But as for the matter  
             of service, I think it not only an advantage for Gentle-  
             men and Women who have low Fortunes, to serve  
             those that are rich in Possessions, or great Titles, or  
             powerful or meritorious Persons ; but they are an honour  
             to those persons they serve, and ought not to be thought  
             the worse for serving of them , but to be the more e-  
             steemed; otherwise, they do not only disgrace those that  
             serve them; but they disgrace themselves by underva-  
             luing their services,as the truth is,most do : For Example,  
             A Gentleman of an ancient Family, whose Ancestors  
             have been very rich, powerful and meritorious, being faln  
             into decay,either by their too free and noble Entertain-  
             ments,or bysome misfortune;or by a numerous issue,which  
             cuts and divides an Estate so often, and into such small  
          
          
             parts, as it is dispersed, and flys away like dust, the Estate  
              being   
          
          
          
             124 S C E N E S. Scen. XV  
          
          
             being gone before the line of succession is ended;the issue of  
             that line reenforced to seek theirFortunes,addressing them-  
             selves to the protection and maintenance of some Noble  
             Persons, which Noble Persons ought to prefer them  
             according to their desert; but put the case some have so  
             much Means as to give their Sons and Daughters indif-  
             ferent Portions, yet living obscurely, not having such  
             Estates as to keep and entertain report, or to put them-  
             selves in a publick way of living, their Children are bu-  
             ried in obscurity,having not ways or a sufficient Estate,  
             to make themselves known to the World, or the World  
             to them, wherefore, these Gentlemen send their Sons  
             and Daughters to serve Noble Men , and honourable  
             Ladies; in which Services they learn handsome Fashi-  
             ons, Graceful Behaviour, Noble Entertainments: Also  
             their Beauties are set out to the general view, their Wits  
             to the general Observation;their Worth and Merits to the  
             general knowledg of the chief of the Kingdom , or at  
             least, to some eminent persons which take notice of them,  
             and so much many times as to Marry them. As for their  
             Sons, their Lords and Noble Masters do often prefer  
             them to Offices, or some Martial Command, if they be  
             persons worthy of Preferment; but if they are not pre-  
             ferred, yet they have Diet, Lodging, Wages, and good  
             Company so long as their Lords and Noble Masters  
             live, and enjoy their respect, and esteem;. besides, all  
             Noble Mens Houses are, or should be superintendent  
             Courts, not only to entertain the Kingdom with Sports  
          
          
              and   
          
          
             Scen. XVI. S C E N E S. 125  
          
          
             and delights, and to teach them Civility, and courteous  
             Behaviour ; but to shew the Honour and Magnificence  
             of the Kingdom, to awe others, and keep up their own  
             Dignity,and by that the Royalty; making a difference  
             betwixt the Peasantry, and the Gentry; for as the No-  
             bility depend upon the Crown , and the Crown is up-  
             held by the Nobility, so ehe Gentry upon the Nobility,  
          
          
             and Nobility by the Gentry; which three parts joyn'd,  
          
          
             is the Noble half of the' Kingdom; the Citizens, Yeo-  
             mandry and Handicrafts-Men; or Labourers, are the  
             other half ; this half is from the Wast downward, the  
             other from the Wast upward : The King is the head, the  
             Nobles are the heart, the Gentry the Armes; the Head  
             to direct, the Heart to assist, the Armes to defend; the  
          
          
             Head is the Seat of Justice, the Heart the Magazine of  
          
          
             Counsel , the Armes the force of Power. The other half  
             is from the Wast downwards, the Citizens are as the  
             Belly which devour all, the Labourers the Feet to tran-  
          
          
             sport all ; but if the Head be distempered with Simplicity,  
          
          
             or distracted with Extravagancy, or akes with Tyranny ;  
          
          
             or the Heart sick with Treason, or hot with Malice, or  
          
          
             cold with Envy, or hath the passion of Covetousness;  
          
          
             or if the Armes be broke with Cowardise, or weak  
          
          
             with Debauchery; the Belly straight swells with Hy-  
             dropical faction, and breaks into Rebellion; the thighs  
             and feet become weak with Famine , and full of the  
             scurvy of disorder: Thus, if the Head be not wise, the  
          
          
             Heart honest, the Armes strong, the rest of the Com-  
              K k  mon-   
          
          
          
             126 S C E N E S. Scen. XVI.  
          
          
             mon-wealth is soon brought to ruine; And if the Em-  
             peror affronts the Nobility by disrepects, or neglects;  
             and the Nobility strives to disgrace the Gentry: Roy-  
             alty, Nobility, and Gentry will soon fall down ; Also,  
             if Kings slight their Noblest Servants, and the Nobility  
             flights the Right Worshipful Servants, their own Ho-  
             nour and Respect will soon decay; not but that all,who  
             are Servants, ought to do their duty to their Lords, Ma-  
             sters, or Ladies, and to obey their pleasure, or else they  
             ought to lose their Service; for all Servants owe a duty  
             and respect to their Masters , and those Masters, who  
             do not keep and govern them to the observance of that  
             duty and respect, ought not to be Masters of Families,  
             or to keep Servants.  
             But to return to my self again ; I believe you are a  
             person so wise, and have so much worth, as neither to  
             detract from your Sisters Services, nor to discredit my  
             birth for being a Servant ; 'tis true, if my Birth and  
             Breeding, had been as low as my Fortunes, you might  
             have rejected me as for a Wife, by reason the Qualities  
             and Natures of mean Persons are most commons ac-  
             cordingly, having as vulgar Souls as Births; I do not  
             say all but most, for sometimes Merit is found in a  
             poor Cottage, and those that have noble Souls are to  
             be preferred before those of Honourable Birth; for they  
             descend from the gods, whose Essence is infused into thse  
             purest Substance of their Nature ; yet that is so seldome,  
             that there are but few Ages that tan boast thereof;  
              but   
          
          
             Scen. XVI. S C E N E S. 127  
          
          
             but however they have this advantage, that they are  
          
          
             so much the more prosperous being unusual ; and as the  
             Gentry are spurred with Ambition to maintain the  
             Honour of their Ancestors, by Virtuous, Noble, and  
             Heroick Precepts, (for Gentry is derived from the root  
          
          
             of Merit) so the brood of the Vulgar for the most part  
          
          
             lies in the same litter, mire, kennel, or dunghill as their  
          
          
             Parents did : And as I am a Gentlewoman born, and  
             bred, although I am poor, yet I am an equal match, for  
             any person, of what Dignity, Wealth , Power, or  
             Authority whatsoever, and as I am virtuously Chast,  
             I am not to be despised by the most Heroick Spirit.  
          
          
             Lover. If you will preach such a Lecture to all my  
             Friends, and acquaintance, and can convert them as  
             you have done me, I will Marry thee in great Try-  
             umph, and feast them all at my Wedding.  
          
          
             Impov. Nay, surely I will never buy a Husband at  
             the charge or cost of so many words, which must be  
             laid out in so many several Discourses , unless I knew  
             how you would prove.  
          
          
             Lover. Let me tell you, I shall prove an excellent  
             bargain.  
          
          
             Impov. I dare not take your word. Exit.  
          
          
             Monsieur Lover, Solus.  
          
          
             Lover. Well, I must Marry her, although thrifty  
          
          
             discretion forbids the Banes. Exit.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
          
             128 S C E N E S. Scen. XVII.  
          
          
             SCENE XVII.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward , as being now a Wi-  
             dower, his Wife newly dead ; and enter Tom  
             Diogenes his Man.  
          
          
             Tom Diogenes.  
              S IR, will not your Worship keep the Funeral-  
             Ceremonies for my Lady, now she is dead, and  
             to have her Herse stand for a Month together, to re-  
             ceive Condoling Visits, and Visiters, in a Room hung  
             with black, and so many Mourners to fit by, and you  
             as a sorrowful Husband at the head of the Herse,seerning  
          
          
             to weep?  
             Under. I cannot fit so long a time.  
             T. Diog. Why? you need not if you will not, or  
          
          
             cannot sit so long and tedious a time; for you may  
          
          
             hire a poor Man to sit and mourn for you ; for the  
          
          
             Mourning Garments and Hood over the Head and  
          
          
             Body , and the dirty Handkerchief held to the eyes,  
          
          
             hides the person of the Mourner, so that none can tell,  
          
          
             but that it is your self.  
             Under. But yet I must imprison my self for that  
          
          
             time; for if I should go abroad, the deceit will be found  
          
          
             out.  
          
          
             T. Diog. But it were better to be bound and im-  
             prisoned to your single life, then to a Company of  
          
          
             Strangers.  
          
          
              Under.   
          
          
             Scen. XVII. S C E N E S. 129  
             Under. And useless Ceremonies, Tom.  
          
          
             T. Diog. But Sir,I would advise you to keep it,were  
          
          
             it but to divulge the Antiquity of your Gentility,which  
          
          
             will be done by the Scutcheons upon the Herse.  
          
          
             Under. The Expence will buy that vain glory too  
             dear; for the very Torches that must be set about the  
          
          
             Herse, will cost more then the Vanity is worth.  
          
          
             T. Diog. You may save that Expence of Torches,  
             Sir; for blinking Lamps with a little Rape-oyl, of small  
             cost, will serve, and will do much better, and are more  
             proper to be hung in a mourning room; for such Lamps  
             look dismal and melancholy , by reason of the many  
             shadows they make, by their imperfect lights; besides,  
             when a Herse is beset round with great Haming Tor-  
             ches, the Corps seems as if it were in the midst of Hell-  
             fire.  
          
          
             Under. Well, go to your ways, Tom, and give order  
             that the Corps be carried privately unto my Country-  
             House, and then to be buried amongst my Ancestors;.  
          
          
             though truly I never knew her as a Wife , but in re-  
             spect to that holy Ceremonial contract Of Marriage,  
             and honourable Names of Husband and Wife, she  
          
          
             shall be buried there.  
          
          
             T. Diog. It is a favour, Sir, that you will let her lie  
             with your Forefathers now she is dead , although you  
          
          
             would never lie with her your self, when she lived; and  
             when you die and are buried in the fame place, if your  
          
          
             ashes should meet, they might chance to produce Im-  
             mortal Souls.  L l  Under.   
          
          
          
             130 S C E N E S. Scen. XVIII.  
          
          
             Under. Or Platonick-Lovers, Tom. Exeunt  
          
          
             SCENE XVIII.  
             Enter the Maids, and other Court-Ladies.  
             Madam Spightful.  
          
          
              I Wonder that all the Strangers that come to the  
             Court, should address themselves to Madamoisel  
          
          
             Bashful,more then to any of the rest ! it cannot be for her  
          
          
             Wit; and I do not see so much beauty she hath to be  
          
          
             admired.  
             Enter Monsteur Insinuator, Monsieur La Bough,  
             and Monsteur Observer, Madmoisel Wagtail, and  
          
          
             Madamoisel Wanton.  
          
          
             Wagt. Lord, Gentlemen, how can you be so long in  
          
          
             the Court without the fight of Madamoisel Bashful ?  
             Infinn. Faith,she will not let us have a fight of her,  
          
          
             but when she comes to attend on the Emperess;  
             Want. I would very fain know, whether any body  
             ever heard her speak a dozen words.  
          
          
             La Boug'. Madam, -I-hadve heard-her  
          
          
             Want. And were they sense, or non-sense?  
          
          
             La Boug. Very fencible dto rhe slibjecl. she spoke on;  
             but she speaks no more then needs she must, to keep in  
             the society of Civility. Exeunt.  
             Enter the Mother of the Maids.  
             Math. Ladies, the Emperess is going abroad.  
          
          
             Exit.  SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. XIX. S C E N E S. 131  
             SCENE XIX.  
             Enter Madamoisel Bashful, and meets the Lord Loyal-  
             ty in the Presence-Chamber.  
          
          
             Lord Loyalty.  
              VV Ell met ; let me examine you where you  
          
          
             have been.  
             Bash. I have been, my Lord, at Madam Controversie's  
             Chamber to hear the Sages dispute.  
          
          
             Loyal. And which side carries it to day ?  
          
          
             Bash. Why, neither, my Lord; it is left in debate,as  
             most Disputes are.  
          
          
             Loyal. So it will be until Doomsday;. for no questi-  
             ons concerning the gods can be resolved, nor any Argu-  
             ments proved; and if no Souls should enter into the  
             blessed Elysium , but those that must eat Ambrosia,and  
             drink Nectar, and prove by reason what Meat and  
             Drink it is ; Charon might drown his Boat in the Ri-  
             ver of Styx ; and Melancholy walk those blessed fields  
             alone by himself; neither should Mortals ever have the  
          
          
             Honour and Glory to be taken up into Jove's Mansion;  
          
          
             Hercules had lost his labour, and Orion had never been  
             a Constellation ; and so of the rest of the gods : Should  
             they impose that which we cannot undergo , and re-  
             quire that we cannot give, and expect we should know  
             that which is not to be known, or at least understood,  
          
          
             were not only unjust, but ridiculous, and agrees not  
              with   
          
          
          
             132 S C E N E S. Scen. XX.  
             with the Wisdom of the gods : Therefore Lady, let  
             me advise you, never to hearken after Controver-  
             sies concerning the gods , nor to enter into any  
             Controversies ; for all sorts of Controversies will dis-  
             quiet your mind, trouble your head, tire your thoughts,  
             disturb your rest , divide your affairs, disorder your  
             Familyy, distract your life, and torment.your Soul :  
             As for Disputes, it heats the Brain , spends the Spirits,  
             breaks the Voice, wearies the Tongue, loses Friends,  
             makes Quarrels, and many times causes unnatural  
             death.  
             Bash. I shall take your Lordships Counsel.  
          
          
             Loyal. I pray grant my desire, to meet me at Mada-  
          
          
             moisel Civility's house.  
             Bash. I shall my Lord. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XX.  
             Enter Madam Ill-favoured. Madamoisel Spighful,and  
          
          
             Madamoisel Wagtail, as being three dear Friends.  
             Madam Ill-favoured.  
          
          
              H Ow shall we compass to get the Company of  
          
          
             Monsieur Insinuator, Monsieur Exceptions, and  
             Monsieur Observer?  
          
          
             Wagt. Faith, I hate their Company ; for they ad-  
          
          
             mire none, but Madamoisel Bashful.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. Therefore, I would endeavour to get them  
             into Our Company, to make her jealous.  Wagt.   
          
          
             Scen. XX. S C E N E S. 133  
          
          
             Wagt. O, she cares not, for she shuns them.  
             Spight. Yet she may be vext to see her Admirers  
          
          
             neglect her.  
          
          
             Wagt. As soon as they see her, they will leave our  
             Company, to go and gaze on her.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. No, no; for our Wit will make them our own,  
             and I will make an Entertainment, and invite them to  
             Supper.  
             Wagt. Pish, pish.  
             Ill-fav. Nay, prithee agree; and i'faith, if you will  
             come, I will send for Doctor Female, and Master Letter;  
             l know you love their Company well ; for if you be  
             not with us, Messieurs Insinuatro, Observer, and Exceptions  
             will never come.  
          
          
             Wagt. Why, did you use to laugh at them, or dis-  
             praise them?  
          
          
             Ill-fav. lt's true,I did behind their backs,when we had  
             other Men in our Company , and to please them we  
             have disparaged those of our acquaintance that were  
             not with us.  
          
          
             Wagt. Well, I will come to sup with you.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              M m  SCENE   
          
          
          
             134 S C E N E S. Scen. XXI.  
          
          
             SCENE XXI.  
             Enter Tom Diogenes,with another Man, his Friend.  
              M An. Tom, how, dost thou do ?  
          
          
             Tom. Do you ask me, how I do in my Health,  
             Estate, or Content?  
             Man. Why, in thy Health, and Wealth; for those  
             that are Healthful and Rich, there is no doubt but they  
          
          
             are Content.  
             Tom. By you leave, let me tell you, That by my  
             Observations in the World, I have observed, that those  
             who are Healthful, very rich, and Powerful, have as  
             troubled Minds, as those that are weakly, poor, and  
             mean ; for a Slave may be more content then a great  
             Monarch; a poor Man that eats and lives by the sweat  
             of his Brows, then a rich Usurer; a Bed-ridden Man,  
             then a Dancing Gallant; for Content and Discontent  
             lives in the Mind, not in the Body, Labour, Wealth,  
             or Power.  
          
          
             Man. Well, how do you both in Mind and Body?  
          
          
             Tom. As most are,sometimes better, and sometimes  
             worse.  
             Man. And how do you like the Court?  
             Tom. As the Court likes me.  
             Man. How is that?  
             Tom. Not to care whether I am in, or out; but  
             come, we will go into the Cellar, for the Cellar-Man  
          
          
              is   
          
          
             Scen. XXII. S C E N E S. 135  
             is my great Friend , and he will make thee drink for  
          
          
             my sake. Exeunt.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward , and Madam Ill-  
             favoured  
             Ill-fav. Monsieur Underward, when will you come  
             to my Chamberd? I can never see you there of late, I  
             pray come and sup with me to Night ; there will be  
             Madam Spightful, and Monfieur Malitious.  
             Under. Faith, Madam, my occasions are such,as will  
             force my absence, for which I could curse my fate, that  
             deprives me of your sweet Company.  
             Ill-fav. If you will come, I will send for Madam  
             Wagtail, and she will tempt you, though I cannot; what  
             say you, will you come?  
             Under. Madam, your Commands are so powerful, as  
          
          
             they are able to force Destiny her self. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXII.  
             Enter Madamoisel Petitioner , her Gentleman Usher,  
             and a Waiting-Woman with her; she all in Mourning  
             as a Widow, being young and handsom.  
             Madamoisel Petitioner.  
              VV E will go-no further, lest we should be  
             turned back, with some affront; for Courts  
             (they say) are apt to cast disgrace on Strangers.  
             Usher. Not on one of your Quality, Madam.  
              Petit.   
          
          
          
             136 S C E N E S. Scen. XXII.  
          
          
             Petit. Of any Quality , if they understand not the  
             Court's Garbs and Phrases.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Underward, and seeing the Lady stan-  
          
          
             ding as in a back-Gallery, speaks to her.  
             Under. Madam, your Beauty deserves to be shewn to  
             the view of the World, and not to be obscured in a  
             black-Gallery ; wherefore, your Ladiship had best go  
             into the Presence, where are other Beauties to entertain  
          
          
             you.  
             Petit. Sir, I came not to shew my Beauty, had I any  
             to shew; but to offer a Petition to the Emperor and his  
             Council, if I knew how?  
             Under. Surely you cannot offer a Petition, and not  
             receive a Grant; and could I do your Ladiship any  
          
          
             service; I should think my self happy ; and although I  
          
          
             live at Court , and am a Servant to the Emperor, my  
             power is but weak ; yet if you please to employ me, I  
             shall serve you to one uttermost of my weak power.  
             Petit. Sir, I shall be thankful; and I will reward you  
             to the uttermost of my ability.  
             Under. Madam; I am not Mercenary, nor do I offer  
             my service out of base Interest; I make not Petitioners  
             my Clients to bribe me, nor do I live by such rewards;  
             but your Commands would be reward enough, and  
             more then I have Merit to deserve, had I power to my  
             wish.  
             Petit. I hope I have not offended, Sir?  
          
          
             Under. Your Sex is sacred, and he is not worthy  
              of   
          
          
             Scen. XXII. S C E N E S. 137  
          
          
             of the Name of a Gentleman , that thinks a Lady can  
             offend any more then the gods ; they may punish Offences  
             with their Frowns, but they themselves cannot offend  
             by doing unjust acts, from whence offences do proceed.  
          
          
             Petit. Then, Sir,I shall desire so much Friendship  
          
          
             from you, as to let me know when the Council sits, and  
          
          
             to present me to the place.  
             Under. I shall, Madam.  
             Petit. If I had any body to recommend my suit, I  
             make no question but it would thrive the better.  
             Under. Madam, there is a noble person , one of the  
          
          
             Emperor's Privy Council , who is both generous and  
          
          
             just, and hath some power and favour with the Emperor;  
             he hath been pleased' to bestow a civil respect to me, and  
          
          
             if you please I will present you to him.  
          
          
             Petit. Sir, I shall be obliged you for your favours.  
             Enter the Lord Loyalty, Monsteur Underward goeth  
          
          
             to him and speaks to him.  
             Under. My Lord, there is a Lady that desires your  
          
          
             Lordships favourable assistance about a Petition she  
             would deliver to the Emperor, and his Council; my  
             noble Lord, I shall not need to plead her Cause; for her  
             Beauty, and the Justice of her Cause, will plead them-  
             selves, without the help of Rhetorick.  
          
          
             Loyal. Sir, it was well you put in the Justice of her  
             Cause ; for Beauty ought not to plead ; for it corrupts  
             all Mortal Judges; but Madam, if you please to make  
          
          
             your Petition known tome, I shall advise you the best  
          
          
              N n  I   
          
          
          
             138 S C E N E S. Scen. XXII.  
          
          
             I can, and shall be industrious in your service; and if  
             you please to let me wait on you into the Room be-  
             fore the Council-Chamber, I shall there best hear your  
             Cause, and receive your Commands.  
             Petit. I shall wait on your Lordship.  
             The Lord Loyalty takes her by the hand, and  
             leads her out, the rest follow.  
             Enter Monsieur Observer to Monsieur Underward.  
          
          
             Observ. So Underward! noi sooner a rich young Wi-  
             dow is faln, but you straight catch her up!  
             Under.: What rich young Widow?  
          
          
             Obs. As if you did not know, and have led her about  
          
          
             from room to room this hour.  
             Under. Why, was she a Widow which I led?  
             Observ. Why, did not you know her?  
          
          
             Under. No, by my troth, I knew not, whether she  
          
          
             was Wise; Widow, or Maid.  
             Observ. Then let me tell you, she is one of the rich-  
          
          
             est Widowss that is in the Kingdom.  
             Under. That may be, and yet but poor.  
          
          
             Observ. Nay, she is very rich; for she was an Heir  
             before she Married , and her Husband a mighty rich  
          
          
             Man, and hath left her a great fortune.  
          
          
             Under. Surely she deserves it, for she seems of a sweet  
             disposition,and noble nature.  
             Observ. Whether she deserve it,or not, he was bound  
             to leave it her upon the conditions her friends made  
             upon the Marriage ; otherwise, I doubt he would have  
              left   
          
          
             Scen. XXIII. S C E N E S. l39  
          
          
             left her poor enough, I mean as poor as he could leave  
             her ; for he and she could never agree all the while they  
             lived together; for she being Married to him against  
             her will, being forced by her Friends, he after he was  
             Married grew cross and unkind to her, aas being jealous  
          
          
             of her affection.  
             Under. It seems you are well acquainted with the  
          
          
             Lady, and her particular affairs.  
             Observ. I am better acquainted with her affairs, then  
             her self, by the acquaintance of her Atturney.  
             Under. I would you were as well acquainted with  
             her self,as with her Atturney,then perchance you might  
             have done me a Courtesie. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXIII.  
             Enter two Old Court-Ladies.  
          
          
             First Lady.  
              H E is a very fine Gentleman, by my troth.  
          
          
             2 Lady. There hath not been a more civil, nor  
             better behaved Courtier, a great while.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward, being a Courtier.  
          
          
             1 Lady. We were even now a talking of you.  
          
          
             Under. Madam, I am not a Subject worthy of your  
             Discourse.  
          
          
             2 Lady. I knew your Father, he was a worthy Gen-  
          
          
             tleman, and kept a noble House, gave great Entertain-  
          
          
             ment  
          
          
          
             140 S C E N E S. Scen. XXIII.  
          
          
             ment, and I have been made very welcome there.  
             Under. I wish I had the honour and abilities to make  
             your Ladyships as welcome as my Father did.  
             2 Lady. I'faith you would not make me so welcome,  
             nor be so kind as your Father was.  
             Under. It should be no fault in my Will, whatso-  
          
          
             ever it might in my power.  
          
          
             Enter Madamoisel Wanton, and a Maid of Honour; as  
          
          
             she enters she sings quavering, La, la, la,fa, la.  
          
          
             Want. O Monsieur Underward! I have been enqui-  
             ring for you, of all I met with, for there is a new Play  
             in the City, and you shall carry me to it; i'faith you  
             shall.  
             Under. Madam, your Commands are sufficient with-  
             out an Oath, to send me any where; and I am proud  
             of being entertained in your service.  
          
          
             1 Old Lady. Fie! fie! you fond young Lady ; you  
             young Ladies surfet Mens affections.  
          
          
             Want. Faith, Madam, that is, because you are Old;  
             but if you were as young as I , or when you were as  
          
          
             young, your fondness, I believe, thought Men beyond  
          
          
             Surfets; but wanton Age envies Youths freedom:  
          
          
             Come Monsieur let us go.  
             Under. Your humble Servant, Ladies.  
             Exeunt Underward, and Madamoisel Wanton.  
          
          
             The Old Ladie Solæ.  
             1 Lady. Did you ever see one so young,and so bold?  
             2 Lady. Why,truly all Youth is so in this Age ; there  
          
          
              is   
          
          
             Scen. XXIV. S C E N E S. 141  
          
          
             is hardly a modest Maid to be found.  
             1 Lady. In our times it was otherwise; for then Maids  
          
          
             were seen, and not heard.  
             2 Lady. They were so; but now they are heard before  
          
          
             they are seen. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXIV.  
          
          
             Enter Conversant and Observer to Monsieur  
             Underward.  
          
          
             Monfieur Underward;  
          
          
              C Onversant, I come to claim my wager, for I have  
             won it.  
             Convers. I confess it also; I confess I did never judge  
          
          
             so weakly in my life.  
             Under. Faith, you were always peremptory, and as  
             confident of your Judgment, as if you knew it would  
             never miss, when to my knowledg it seldom hits ; for  
          
          
             if you judge once right, you judge ten times false; and I,  
          
          
             for once I judge false, I judge ten times right.  
             Convers. You brag now you have won a wager by  
          
          
             your Judgment, but I have as much wit to judge on  
             Conjectures, Probabilities, Persons, or Business, as you.  
          
          
             Under. Perchance, you have as much Wit as I, and  
             more wisdom then I, and far more good Nature then I;  
          
          
             for it is your Wisdom and good Nature, that makes  
          
          
             you err in your Judgment ; for.you judge of Men and  
              O o  Business   
          
          
          
             142 S C E N E S. Scen. XXIV.  
          
          
             Business according to sence, reason and honesty, as what  
             ought to be done, or may be done, discreetly imagin-  
             ing all Men in their actions and course of life, to do  
             justly, honestly, judiciously, and as they ought to do,  
             supposing that they understand their own affairs and  
             Employments clearly, measure them evenly, weigh them  
             justly, and that they order all their Business properly,  
             timely, and fitly, judging most Men wise and honest;  
             whereas, I judg most Men Fools or Knaves; Fools,  
             because they neither conceive rightly, nor understand  
             clearly, nor propound rationally, nor conclude proba-  
             bly, nor act prudently ; or that they are Knaves, who  
             regard neither right, truth, nor justice , but act all for  
             their self-interest, although it should be to the ruins of  
             all honest Men, or to the ruine of The Commonwealth,  
             so it may be any advantage to themselves : And this  
             Observation of Mankind makes me for the most part  
             judge right; for I observe, That neither Nature,nor the  
             gods, have given all Men, no nor most Men, either  
             Wisdom or Honesty ; for Honesty is not a general  
             gift ; and as for Wisdom it is so scarce in the World,  
             as not one wise Man is born in an age; for though there  
             be many fortunate Men, which seem like wise Men,  
             yet they are but of Fortunes making, and not of  
             Truths making; for true Wisdom is like the Elixir, it  
             is heard of, but not known : Wherefore, good Conver-  
             sant, Judg not most Men to be Wise and Honest.  
          
          
             Convers. Well, hereafter I will judg all or most Men  
          
          
              to   
          
          
             Scen. XXIV. S C E N E S. 143  
          
          
             to be Fools, or Knaves, or both ; and all their actions  
             to be against all sense and reason ; and whatsoever falls  
             out happily, is the act of Fortune; and whatsoever falls  
             out unhappily, is through Mans folly, falshood, or  
             ignorance.  
          
          
             Enter Spend-all reading in a Paper-Book.  
          
          
             Convers. Jove bless mel Spend-all, can you read! or  
             do you hold a piece of Printed paper in your hands,  
             before your eyes, to make all the Passengers believe you  
             can read?  
          
          
             Spend. Why, do you think I cannot read, because  
             I cannot Construe a piece of Latin?  
             Convers. It is not that you cannot Construe Latin,  
             but because you are to deboist, that I had thought you  
             had never looked in a Book, or any written or printed  
             Paper, since you had been a School-boy.  
          
          
             Spend. I confess, I have not troubled reading much ;  
             but all the Shops, Streets, Houses and Studies are so full  
             of Pamphlets andy Diurnals , as I cannot pass by, or  
             proud through them, unless I take up some to read.  
             Convers. 'Tis a sign, this Age is fill'd with lying  
             News, or new Lyes; for in this Age, at least in this  
          
          
             Kingdom, there are many Pamphlet-Wits, and Diur-  
          
          
             nal-Histories, which are most Lyes.  
          
          
             Observ. There are as many Declarations and Petiti-  
             ons, as there are Pamphlets and Dirunals, which shews  
             there be Eloquent Orators, that can make Eloquent  
             Declarations and Petitions.  
          
          
              Spend.   
          
          
          
             144 S C E N E S. Scen. XXV.  
          
          
             Spend. 'Tis true ; but as for their Declarations, they  
             have for the most part one stile, and much after one  
             and the same way, only some words altered, according  
             to the present subject; and as for their Petitions , the  
             Wit ofa Whole County, or the Whole Wit of a Coun  
             ty is joyned to make one Petition.  
          
          
             Observ. I confess, that half a sheet of Paper, at most a  
             whole sheets,is as large as their Wit will reach; wherefore,  
             it would be very ill fortune, if they were not good,  
             since they are to short.  
          
          
             Convers. But some Historians will gather them toge-  
             ther, and make a great swell'd Hydropical History of  
             them. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXV.  
             Enter Madam Ill-favoured,and Madamoisel Wagtail.  
          
          
             Madam Ill-favoured.  
              F Aith, Wagtail, I have been expecting you this half  
             hour ; yet I perceive you are not always as good  
          
          
             as your word.  
          
          
             Wagt. Faith, I could not help it; for the Duchess of  
          
          
             Amors sent me to seek out the Duke of Noeland, to tell  
          
          
             him she was gone to Madam la Gravities Chamber.  
             Ill-fav. And did you find him ?  
          
          
             Wagt. Yes, I met met him coming from the Emperor.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. XXVI. S C E N E S. 145  
          
          
             iEnter- Madamoëffē'lTell;tale,and Mddam Spightffil.  
          
          
             Ill-fav. Madamoisel Tell-tale, prithee for Jupiter's  
             fake run to the Duchess, and tell her I heard her Lord  
             enquire for her; and 'twas told him she was seen going  
          
          
             to Madam la Gravities Lodging ; for if her Husband  
          
          
             finds her and the Duke of Noeland together, he will  
          
          
             frown; wherefore, prithee run: Tell-tale runs out.  
             Although on my Conscience he hath no reason to  
          
          
             suspect them.  
             Spight. No, but our Husbands are jealous Men,and  
             very mistrustful. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXVI.  
             Enter Tom Diogenes, and another Man.  
          
          
              M An. Tom, I hear thy Master is Married again to  
          
          
             a very rich Lady.  
          
          
             Tom. Yes, Faith; Fortune hath been a better Friend  
             to my Master, then the Control of Wards.  
          
          
             Man. Now thy Master hath such great fortune,thou  
             may'st grow rich.  
          
          
             Tom. No, Faith, for when my Master Married his  
             first Wife, he was so poor he had nothing to give me,  
             and now he hath Married a rich Wife, I fear he will grow  
             so covetous , as he will not part with any thing.  
          
          
             Man. But rich Men use to be free and liberal.  
          
          
             Tom. O no, for Men are bountiful, when they have  
              P p  no.   
          
          
          
             146 S C E N E S. Scen. XXVII.  
          
          
             nothing to give, but sparing when they have something  
             to keep Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE XXVII.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward, and Tom Diogenes  
             his Man.  
          
          
             Tom Diogenes.  
          
          
              I f I may be so bold, Sir, I wonder your Worship  
          
          
             will leave the Court?  
          
          
             Under. Nay, Tom, the Court leaves me.  
          
          
             Tom. I dare answer for the Court, it will never  
             leave your Worship as long as you have a peny; and  
             when you have nothing, then 'tis time to leave you  
             i'faith.  
          
          
             Under. Wherefore, Tom, I will leave it whilst I have  
          
          
             pence.  
          
          
             Tom. Where will you find so kind Friends in the  
          
          
             Country ? Courtiers will so smile on you to your face !  
             Under. And laugh at me behind my back.  
             Tom. In your presence, what sugar'd words they will  
             give you?  
             Under.And in my absence,what wormwood and gall ?  
             Tom. How they will imbrace you ?  
             Under. And when they are from me,kick at my name.  
             Tom. Nay, they will kils you.  
             Under. A Judas-kiss,to betray me.  
              Tom.   
          
          
             Scen. XXVII. S C E N E S. 147  
          
          
             Tom. And when they see you, Clap their hands for  
             joy, a plaudite of welcome.  
          
          
             Under. When out of sight, out of Mind; or else  
             like Snakes to hiss me from their Stage.  
          
          
             Tom; Nay, they will whisper in your ear Court-  
             Secrets.  
          
          
             Under. Though there be none.  
             Tom. And they will almost softly speak Treason in  
          
          
             your ear.  
          
          
             Under. Yes, and afterwards swear, that it was I spoke  
             it unto them.  
          
          
             Tom. Well Sir, for my part I never saw kinder peo-  
          
          
             ple in my life.  
          
          
             Under. When they use you kindest, then look to  
             your self, for then they have deceiv'd, or mean to de-  
             ceive you; all is Interest and particular End, that is  
             all the kindness and friendship they have.  
          
          
             Tom. Interest is well, if they pay that, for they  
             are never able to pay the Principal; but I assure your  
             Worship if they give me good words to my face, I  
             care not what they do when they are gone: back-biters  
             are but back-snarlers : But where will your VVorship  
             have such fine Clothes, a la mode Feathers, Mistresses,  
             gilt Coaches, Pages , Lacquies, Powders, Per-  
          
          
             fumes , Maskes , Playes , Balls, and a thousand  
          
          
             such like Recreations ? and in VVinter time sitting with  
             a particular Lady upon a fine French bed by dim Can-  
             dle light having such sweet Conversation after sighing,  
          
          
              groaning,   
          
          
          
             148 S C E N E S. Scen. XXVII.  
             groaning, professing and processing with Lovers tears,  
          
          
             and all for Loves Epilogue, which she longs for as  
          
          
             much as you, though she makes it nice with tricks of  
             Loves dissembling; and will you lose all these fine sports  
             for catching birds in the Country, or killing a timer-  
             ous Hare.  
             Under. For all your Court-delights, I'le have none,  
             for in one day in the Country, live more harmless joys,  
             then in years at Court, which heap up Alps of trouble.  
             Tom. VVell, it is your VVorlhips pleasure rogo in-  
             to the Country; and be Melancholy , conversing with  
             Beats, Birds, and Tress, and to leave these Court-  
             pleasures for your rich Heir.  
          
          
             VVhere what is left, he means to spend it,  
             And in high Pleasure there will end it,  
             VVherefore, had not your VVorship better take your  
             pleasure your self ? for after a Prodigal, comes a good  
             Husband; for he is necessitated to it ; and after a good  
             Husband a Prodigal; for he is obliged to it ; like the  
             VVeather, after fair comes foul, and after foul, fair:  
             VVherefore, I beseech your VVorship for the good of  
             your Family, spend most you have, and you shall have  
          
          
             Pleasure to boot.  
             Under. No Sir, I am resolved of my Course.  
             Tom. The more is the pity, that good Counsel  
          
          
             will not be taken , when it is so prudently given ; but  
          
          
             Gentlemen will run on to their ruin, I see it, the gods  
          
          
             help them ! for they will never be advised no coun-  
          
          
              selled,   
          
          
             Scen. XXVII. S C E N E S. 149  
          
          
             selled; but I beseech your Worship here upon my  
             Knees, that you will be pleased to spend most of your  
             Estate for the good of your Posterity ; alas Sir ! when  
             you leave your Heir in the Golden waves of Riches, in  
             the vast Seas of good Fortune up to the Chin , left he  
             should be drown'd in the deluge- of Happiness; alas!  
             Sir, he wil I strive to swin, and then look you here,  
             swimming he throws your Gold on that side, and on this  
             side, with his hands and arms, and kicks your Gold with  
             his legs, thighs, and feet, on that side and on this side,  
             and all to save himself from drowning in this whirl-  
             pool of Prosperity; wherefore, I beseech your Wor-  
             ship to leave as little as you can, for the good of your  
             House.  
          
          
             Under. You are a Fooll, Children are but excuses  
             for Covetousness; for it is still for ones own sake, that  
          
          
             Men do every thing as the heat of humour and passion  
          
          
             leads them; for I have known more covetous Old Bat-  
             chellors and childish Men, then any that have been  
             Married, and had many Children; and let my Heir  
             spend it in God's Name for, he cannot take more plea-  
             sure in spending of it, then I in getting of it; and there-  
             fore you Puppy,let us go.  
             Exit Monsieur Underward, Tom Solus.  
             Tom. My Master leads me, for now I am his Puppy;  
             but if my Master were blind, I would lead him, and be  
             his Dog. t  
              Q q  SCENE   
          
          
          
             150 SCENES. Scen. XXVIII.  
          
          
             NE XXVIII.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward, his two Brothers, and  
             two Sisters.  
             Monsieur Underward.  
              B Rothers and Sisters, I sent for you, to invite you  
             to my Wedding-feast , and also to come home  
             and live with me; and since Heaven hath sent me a rich  
          
          
             Wife; I will iustly perform my Fathers will, and give  
          
          
             those Portions he did allot for you.  
             Impoverished. Brother, as Heaven hath given you a  
             rich and beautiful Wife, so Heaven hath given me a  
             rich and gallant Man to my Husband, for I am Married  
             to Monsieur Lover, my Lady's Brother.  
             2 Brothers. And we will go a Wooing, and try if  
             Fortune will give us rich Wives.  
          
          
             Younger Sist. I have neither Heaven, nor Fortune to  
          
          
             my Friend ; for Fortune did place me ill, and caused  
             my honest industry and faithful service to be rewarded  
          
          
             with sharp words, and cruel blows; Heaven hath for-  
          
          
             taken Innocency, and left it to suffer disgrace.  
             She Weeps.  
             Under. Be patient Sister, I will either recover your  
             Honour, or destroy your Enemy, or die my self.  
             Enter Monsieur Jealousie, the younger Sister's  
             Servant.  
             Jealous. O Mistress, forgive me, and take me into  
             your favour again, or I die  Young.   
          
          
             Scen. XXVVIII. S C E N E S. 151  
          
          
             Young. Sist. I can forgive you, but never love you  
             more.  
             Jealous. Marry me, and then try to love afterwards.  
             Young. Sist. I shall not dare to Marry a Man thar  
             shall, or can have any suspition of me, unless my acti-  
             ons prove me false and wicked.  
             Jealous. Dear Sr., speak for me, I confess my fault,  
             repent, ask pardon, and promise never to do so again.  
             Under. What say you, Brothers, may we in honour  
             perswade our Sister [ to ] Marry this Gen-  
             tleman, and receive him into our Family ?  
             Jealous. Gentlemen, the greatest Sins repented of,  
             Heaven pardons.  
             2 Brothers. Brother, this Gentleman is noble born,  
             honourably bred, hath a great Estate, and is a proper  
             Man.  
             Under. Well, I perceive, Brothers, you are for him;  
             Sir, I will try all the power of an Elder Brother, to per-  
             swade her not only to Marry you , but to love you,  
             which I am very confident she will, being vertuous and  
             good natur'd, and will love you as well, if not better  
          
          
             then ever she did.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
              SCENE   
          
          
          
             152 S C E N E S. Scen. XXIX.  
          
          
             S C E N E XXIX.  
             Enter Monsieur Underward, and Tom Diogenes  
             his Man;  
             Tom Diogenes.  
              I Beseech your Worship to give me leave once more  
             to advise you from the Country ; alass Sir, will you  
             change your Organ for a Bag-pipe, your Harpsichord,  
             for a Cymbal; your Viol,for a Country Fiddle, or a  
             Welsh Croud; a grave Irish Harp, with the Harper  
             that sees what he doth,for a blind Harper with Cats-guts  
             that whirles in the nose, as if it had the Pox; or a Spa-  
             nish Gythar, to play a Saraband a la mode; with Knack-  
             ing Castagnetas for a Country Gythar, that sounds like a  
             Tub; and your rare Italian songs with Trilloes for  
             Lancelot du Lake, a Carole,or a Waffel-bowl Song, with  
             some edifying Ballets ; and will you change your Cor-  
             rants, Sarabands and Bralles, for Scotch Jiggs, Horn-  
             pipes and Rounds? look before you leap, I beseech your  
             Worship.  
             Under. It is all in vain, good Tom; for I am resolved  
          
          
             your twinkling device shall not stay me.  
             Tom. But pray hear an old Servant; will you change  
          
          
             a Spanish Olia, for boil'd Beef and Cabbage? a French  
          
          
             Bisk for Brewis with Beef-broth or buttered Eggs with  
             hot Pepper upon them? and all the Dainties of Sea or  
             Pond-Fish, for a Dace or a Gougeon in the Country,  
          
          
              and   
          
          
             Scen. XXIX. S C E N E S. 153  
          
          
             and all Curiosity of Dressing so Metamorphosed as  
             you shall not know what you eat? and for fruit, change  
             our Musmelons for a Pompion? your most curious  
             Sallads for onions and Garlick? all your choice Fruits  
             for Crabs? and all your Confectionaries for starcht  
             Carrowaies, or purging Comfits, because you buy them  
             of Country Apothecaries ? I beseech your Worship  
             have some mercy of your seft, and leave not the delici-  
             ous Wines, and the sweet juice of Grapes for strong  
             Darby-Ale, fah! how it smells of the Malt, for they  
             put no Water to it, nothing but squeezed Malt, Sir,  
             which inflames the Country Noses.  
             Under. Tom, I do not tast your advice by no means,  
             no not at all.  
             Tom. Sir, I must be bold still to put you in mind  
             not to leave the Court : Will yond-change your sweet  
             Spanish Gloves, for Dogs Leather-Gloves in the Coun-  
          
          
             try, that smell of the dressing? your Spanish Perfumes  
          
          
             for choaking Juniper? your Jessamin and Orange-  
             Flowers, for a Posie of Dock-leaves , Daysies and  
             Thime; and your sweet Pomander, for an Orange stuck  
             with Cloves, for a Token to your Dairy-Maid ? sweet  
             Powder,for the dust of a Country High-way , to put  
             you in mind of your Mortality , dust to dust? Good  
          
          
             Sir, think of it, be kind to your self.  
          
          
             Under. Tom, I smell out your advice to be none of  
             thei best Counsel.  
          
          
              R r  Tom.   
          
          
          
             154 S C E N E S. Scen.XXIX  
          
          
             Tom. One word more, I beseech your Worship :  
             Will you change your fine Damask Linnen for Coun-  
             try Huswives Cloth, to rub off your Worships fine  
             skin ? it may pleasure those that have the Itch : Or will  
             you leave touching the smooth Billiard-balls, to handle  
             Nettles? or the Cold Chrystal balls, for Fus-balls  
             in the Country ? and to leave the glorious apparel'd  
             Lady for a Wastcoatier in the Country? the Ladies  
             silk-Stockins, for Woollen-Stockins in the Country ?  
             rich Garters and Roses, for Garters of Lift of Cloth?  
             rich laced Shoos for wet-Leather-Shoos tyed with  
             points? imbroider'd rich Satin Petticoats for Stamel-  
             Petticoats, perfumed too much with the natural Titilla-  
             tion? either this will stay your Worship, or nothing;  
             if this take not I am in dispair.  
          
          
             Under. Good Tom, it doth not touch upon me at  
             all ; but prithee since thou art such a Clown, what  
             makes thee love the Court so?  
          
          
             Tom. Troth, I'le tell you Sir ; I am as it were given  
             a little to idleness; wherefore, I find it the fittest place  
             for me in the World, Sir ; besides, Sir, with his Ma-  
             jesties loyal Subjects,and false Officers below Stairs, I can  
             be drunk when I will at his Majesties charge, of the best  
             Wine ; and being provident, and having the disease  
             of good fellowship upon me , being a poor Man, it  
             would undo me, Sir, and eat me out of House and  
             Home; but Providence is above all things, it distin-  
             guishes betwixt the wife Men, and the Fools.  
          
          
              Under.   
          
          
             Scen. XXIX. S C E N E S. 155  
          
          
             Under. Come, Tom, there is something else in it, that  
             makes thee so earnest.  
          
          
             Tom. No indeed, Sir, nothing to speak of.  
          
          
             Under. But there is, and therefore tell me.  
          
          
             Tom. Truly then, ( under the Rose, ) the Mother of  
             the Maids sends me often about most serious and  
             important Business, and casts such a loving eye at me;  
             saying, Sweet Tom, I do so trouble thee , but as thou  
             loves me, fetch me a quart of Milk, not so, to make a  
             Posset; and giving me such a loving Nip with her  
             hand, saying, Sweet Tom, go: Now your Worship  
             knows not what this may come to, I being a lazie fellow  
             and pretty handsom, and she a virtuous Lady, we may  
             commit Matrimony, who knows? and with her Mo_  
             therly care, and my Fatherly duty, we may do your  
          
          
             Worship a pleasure, one way or other.  
          
          
             Under. You flatter your self, Tom.  
             Tom. No Sir, she flatters me.  
             Under. I thought there was another deadly Sin in it.  
             Tom. Truly, Sir, I find my self very Gentleman-like  
             of late, so as I mean to have the other five deadly  
             Sins.  
             Under. You are a Fool, Tom.  
             Tom. O sweet Mother !  
          
          
              The   
          
          
          
             The ACTORS NAMES in the Presence.  
             Two Gentlemen.  
             Conversant,  
             Observant,  
             Monsieur Courtiers.  
             Mode,  
             Spend-all,  
             Princess and he Governess.  
             Wagtail.  
             Self-conceit,  
             Madamoisel Wanton. Gentlewomen.  
             Quick-wit,  
             Bashful,  
             The Mother of the Maids.  
             Fool.  
             Mosieyr Wedlock.  
             The Sayler.  
          
          
             A Jayler.  
             TheInterlocutorsNames in theScenes join'd to thePresence  
          
          
             Monsieur Buyer.  
             Monsieur Seller.  
             Monsieur Underward, and Diogenes his Man.  
             Monsieur Underward's Brothers and Sisters.  
             Two Gentlemen.  
          
          
             Madam Civility.  
          
          
             The Lord Loyalty, a Courtier.  
          
          
             Ill-favourd,  
             Spighful,  
             Madam Court-Ladies.  
             Controversie,  
             Ill-natur'd.  
             MadamImpoverish'd,MOnsieruUnderwardseldestSister  
             A younger Sister of his,andMonsteur Jealousie her Servant.  
             Monsieur Lover, Servant to Madam Impoverished.  
          
          
             Madam Petitioner, and a Gentleman-Usher.  
             Two Old Court-Ladies.  
             I  
             The Bridals.  
             A C O M E D Y.  
             A C T I. S C E N E I.  
             Enter Monsieur Take-pleasure and Monsieur Adviser ,  
             and meet Monsieur. Facil.  
             Monsieur Adviser.  
              M  Ons. Facil, Where have you been  
             so early this morning, abroad?  
             Facil. I have been at Church,  
             to seea young Virgin and a Bat-  
             choler married to day.  
             Take-pleas. How do you know  
             she is a Virgin?  
             Facil. By her modest Countenance.  
             Take-pleas. Faith, Women have more modesty in  
              B  their   
          
          
          
             2 The B R I D A L S. Act. I.  
          
          
             their countenance, then in their natures; wherefore  
             you may be deceived by her countenance; for Wo-  
             mens countenances, like false glasses , make their  
          
          
             minds appear fairer then they are; for a modest counte-  
          
          
             nance may have a wanton mind.  
             Facil.- But this Brides countenance was so modest,  
             I wish that I had been her Bridegroom.  
             Adviser. Would you have married her only for her  
             modest countenance?  
             Facil. Yes, for a modest countenance is the greatest  
             Beauty in my eye.  
             Adviser. Faith, that Beauty never lasts above a day,  
             nay, an hours acquaintance fadeth it, two hours wither  
             it, and in three hours its is quite vanish'd away.  
             Facil. Some Women have modest countenances and  
             natures all their life-time.  
             Adviser. Their life must be very short, if it last no  
             longer then their modesty : 'Tis true, Women have  
             feigned modesty, but not real modesty; for they put  
             on modesty, as they do paint, the one to make them  
             appear fairer, the other to make them appear chaster  
             then they are.  
             Facil You do not deserve either a modest, or chast  
             Woman.  
          
          
             Adviser. Faith, I hate both modesty and chastity in  
          
          
             Women; for modesty and chastity are enemies to the  
             Masculine Sex; and worse then a Cloister, as being  
             more restraint.  
          
          
              Facil.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The B R I D A L S. 3  
          
          
             Facil. Well, leaving Modesty, Chastity and Cloi-  
             sters, will you go to the Bridal-House ?  
             Adviser. Yes, for I believe there will be liberty and  
             choice.  
             Fail. There will be two choice Brides.  
             Take-pleas. Why, hath one Man married two Wo-  
          
          
             men?  
          
          
             Facil. No, but two Men have married two Wo-  
          
          
             men ;for there are two Brides and two Bridegrooms.  
          
          
             Adviser. It had been better that one Bridegroom had  
          
          
             two Brides,for then he might have spar'd one for a Friend.  
             Facil. It had not been better for you, unless you  
          
          
             had been that Friend to receive that Courtesie.  
          
          
             Takepleas. I would have endeavour'd with all the  
          
          
             Rhetoric I have, and all the Protestations l could make,  
          
          
             an the Oaths I could swear, to make him believe I  
          
          
             was his Friend, that he might be my Friend.  
          
          
             Facil. Come, come, they would have done thee no  
          
          
             service.  
             Adviser. But I might have done him service, at least to  
             his spare-Bride ; but who are those that are Married ?  
             Facil. Sir John Amorous, to the Lady Coy; and Sir  
             William sage, to the Lady Vertue. Exeunt.  
             Enter Mr. Long-life,and Mr. Aged.  
             Aged. Mr. Longlife, I am glad to see you look so  
             well, and that you are strong and lusty.  
             Longl. So am I to see you so, good Master Aged.  
             Aged. I thank God, though I am old, I feel no stitches.  
              Longl.   
          
          
          
             4 The B R I D A L S. Act. I.  
          
          
             Longl. Beshrew me, feel some stitches now and then  
             Aged. O! that is nothing, for the youngest and stron-  
             gest Man of them all, will feel stitches sometimes.  
          
          
             Long. I rather wish the young Men did feel them,  
          
          
             then I, for they are better able to endure them ; but what  
             News do you hear Mr. Aged?  
             Aged. Faith, none that is good, or that is worth the  
             hearing.  
             Longl. It is a sign the times are bad, the times are bad.  
             Aged. Men are so evil, Mr. Longlife, that the times  
             must needs be so.  
          
          
             Longl. The times were better when we were young.  
          
          
             Aged. We thought them so, being young; for young  
             Men have not much experience, nor long acquaintance  
             of the World , they endeavour to know,and be acquain-  
             ted with the Vices in one VVorld, though not the  
             Vertues.  
          
          
             Longl. Faith, Vertue is rather talked of, then known,  
             at least thenp ractified.  
          
          
             Aged. Indeed Men preach Vertue, but practise Vice.  
          
          
             Longl. 'Tis such old Men as we are, that are the  
             Preachers, and young Men the Practitioners.  
          
          
             Aged. Yes,evil young Men say,That old Men preach  
             Vertue, when they are past practising Vie.  
          
          
             Longl. Indeed young Men despise old Men'sCoun-  
             fels and Advice, and will believe nothing they say, un-  
             till they live to be old themselves, and then they see their  
             past-follies, and think themselves only wise, because they  
             are old.  Aged.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The B R I D A L S. 5  
          
          
             Aged. Then all Men think themselves wise, if young  
             Men think themselves wiser then old Men, and old Men  
          
          
             think themselves wiser then young Men.  
          
          
             Longl. 'Tis true, they do so; and the same way Men  
          
          
             think other Men Fools; for young Men think old Men  
          
          
             Fools, and old Men think young Men Fools.  
          
          
             Aged. Nay, old Men do more then think young  
             Men Fools, for they know young Men are Fools; for  
             'tis impossible they can be wise, for wisdom is not born  
             with Men, nor left to Men as Inheritances are.  
          
          
             Longl. No By'rlady, they must be bound Apprenti-  
             ces to Time, and serve Time many years, before they  
             can be wise Men.  
          
          
             Aged. Well, let us leave foolish young Men to Time,  
             and let you and I go take the fresh air for Health.  
          
          
             Longl. With all my heart, let us go. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter the Brides and Bridegrooms, and all the Bridal  
             Guests, Sir Mercury, Poet one of the Bride-Men, and  
          
          
             the Lady Fancy one of the Bride-Maids, that helps  
             to lead one of the Brides to the Church.  
          
          
             Adviser. Gentlemen Bridegrooms, we must rifle your  
             Brides of their Bride-Garters.  
             Sir J. Amorous .If it be the custom, I submit.  
          
          
             Sage. But I will not agree to such an uncivil custom,  
             for no man shall pull off my Wives Garters, unless it  
             be my self.  
              C  Vertue.   
          
          
          
             6 The B R I D A L S. Act I·  
          
          
             Vertue. We have pull'd off our Garters already, and  
          
          
             therefore if these Batchellor-Gentlemen, will have them,  
             we will send for them.  
          
          
             Facil. Pray Ladies let us have them, for the Bride-  
             Garters are the young Batchellors fees.  
          
          
             Courtly. Since we must not rifle for their Garters, let  
          
          
             us cast Dice for them.  
             Takepleas. Content.  
             M.Mediator. The Bridegrooms points being our fees,  
             therefore we must rifle for the points.  
             Sir W.Sage.If you please Ladies,we are ready to be rifled.  
             The Women offer to take off the Points, but Lady  
             Vertue hinders them.  
             Vertue. Ladies, pray stay, for it is the custom, not to  
             unpoint the Bridegrooms, until they be ready to go to  
             bed.  
             SirW.Sage.I am ready go to Bed,if the Ladies please.  
             One of the Female-Guests.  
             No, we will stay till Night.  
             Exeunt all, only two of the Ladies.  
             1 Lady. The Lady Coy is one of the most modest and  
             bashful Brides that ever I saw ; in so much, as she is  
             ashamed to look upon her Bridegroom.  
             2 Lady. Some of her modesty ought to be reserved,  
             or elfe she will have none left for to morrow.  
             1 Lady. Why, doth Modesty wast like a Watch-  
             candle,in a night?  
             2 Lady. Yes, faith, it is a light that soon goes out, or  
             rather a shadow that soon vanishes.  1 Lady.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 7  
          
          
             1 Lady. Then the Lady Vertue has no shadows,  
          
          
             for she appears neither bashful, nor bold; but she is both  
             in her Behaviour and Countenance like a Bridal-Guest,  
          
          
             rather then a Bride. Exeunt.  
             S C E N E II.  
             Enter the Brides,Bridegrooms,and all their Bridal-Guests,  
             Men and Women.  
          
          
             Sir John Amorous.  
          
          
              P Ray let us not dance, but go to bed.  
          
          
             M.Mediator. That will be an injury to your Bridal-  
             Guests, to rob them of their Mirth and Musick, by  
          
          
             going to bed so soon.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. No,Ladies,we will dance; Musick,play.  
          
          
             The Musick plays , and they danced; Sir John  
             Amorous kisses his Bride, and Courts her  
          
          
             with similes and amorous looks.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage.Gentlemen, and Ladies, for Heavens sake,  
             have mercy upon two languishing Bridegrooms, and  
          
          
             leave off dancing for this time.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Have I found you out,SirWilliamSage!  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. I was never hid, Madam.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Yes, but you were; for now I perceive  
             you would go to bed with your Bride.  
              Sage.   
          
          
          
             8 The B R I D A L S. Act I.  
          
          
             Sage. I shall not need to obscure my defires,Madam  
          
          
             for it is lawful for any Man to lie with his own wife.  
          
          
             Mediator. You are a Wag , you are a Wag, Sir  
             William.  
          
          
             Sage. No Madam, for to be a Wag, is to be un-  
             seasonably wanton, which I am not.  
          
          
             Amorous. Faith, this Dancing is unseasonable, there-  
             fore fair Ladies, attend the fair Brides to bed.  
          
          
             Female Guests. Come, Lady Coy , we will help to  
          
          
             undress you.  
          
          
             Coy. No truly, but you shall not, for I will not go  
             to bed.  
             They seem earnest to have her to bed,and she to stay.  
          
          
             Sage. What is the matter, Ladies, will not you let  
             our Brides go to bed?  
          
          
             Female Guests. We desire to wait on them, and to  
             help to undress them, but the Lady Coy will not go to  
             bed.  
          
          
             Sage. Then pray go with my Bride.  
             One of the Ladies. Yes, if she please to go to bed.  
             Sage. Wife will not you go to bed?  
             Vertue. Yes, if you please to have me.  
             Sage. 'Tis my desire.  
             Exit Lady Vertue, and some of the Ladies with her :  
          
          
             Sir John Amorous comes and kisses his Bride.  
          
          
             Amorous. Pray go to Bed.  
          
          
             Coy, Pray let me stay here.  
          
          
             Adviser. Faith, she would be carried to bed; carry  
             your Wife to bed, Sir John Amorous.  Amo-   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S 9  
          
          
             Amorous. Not against her will, although against her  
          
          
             consent.  
             Adviser. In words you mean.  
             Amorous. Come, Sweet-heart, I will usher you into  
          
          
             your Chamber.  
          
          
             Exit Sir John Amorous, leading his Bride, who  
             seems very unwilling to go, all the Company go-  
             eth with them, only Adviser and Facil stay;  
             Facil fetched a sigh.  
          
          
             Facil. O how happy a man is Sir John Amorous!  
          
          
             and how unhappy a man am I!  
             Adviser. Perchance two days hence, Sir J. Amorous  
          
          
             will think himself as unhappy,as you think your self now,  
          
          
             for a great surfeit is as bad as a sharp hunger. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
          
          
             Enter the Lady Vertue as in her Chamber, with some  
             other female Guests; she seems to undress her self.  
          
          
             Lady Vertue.  
          
          
              P Ray Ladies help to undress me.  
             M. Mediator. That we will.  
             They unpin her Gorget.  
          
          
             M.Mediator. Shall we fling the Stockins when you  
             and your Bridegroom are a bed?  
              D   L.Vertue.   
          
          
          
             10 The B R I D A L S. Act I.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. Yes, if you please, Ladies.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. And shall we break the Bride-Cake  
             over your head ?  
          
          
             L. Vertue. I must intreat you to omit that custom  
          
          
             as also setting a Sack-posset upon the bed; for the  
          
          
             crumbs of Cake and drops of Posset, will be very ill bed-  
             fellows; besides, it is not a cleanly Custom; but I have  
             given order that all such Junkets shall be provided for  
             you in another room, to make you merry, when I and  
             my Husband are a bed.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. So I perceive, you will send us away,  
             as soon as you can.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. I'le leave your staying, or going away,to  
             your own discretion. Enter a Maid-Servant.  
          
          
             Servant. Madam,your Bridegroom hath sent to know,  
          
          
             whether you be in Bed.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. I shall be in a short time, tell him: Come  
          
          
             Ladies, let us go into the Bed-chamber. Exeunt.  
             Enter Sir John Amorous,and his Bride, with the rest  
             of the Female-Guests.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amorous. Ladies, I shall leave my Bride with  
             you, to help her to bed. Exit Sir J. Amorous.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Come, Lady Coy, to morrow you will  
          
          
             be Lady Amorous.  
          
          
             1 Lady. Why, do Wives never take their Husbands  
          
          
             name till the day after Marriage?  
             M. Mediator. No, for the first day, they neither are  
             called by their own, nor their Husbands names; but are  
          
          
              called   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 11  
          
          
             called Brides, as an Interlude-between both.  
          
          
             2 Lady. Come, come, undress the Bride.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. That we will soon do.  
          
          
             L. Coy. I will not be undrest.  
             1 Lady. What, Lady,will you lie in your Clothes?  
             M. Mediator. If she will lie in her Clothes, it will  
          
          
             neither be easie, convenient, nor cleanly; but come,  
          
          
             come, Lady we will undress you.  
          
          
             They offer to undress her, hut she puts them back.  
          
          
             L. Coy. I Will not be undrest.  
             M. Mediator. Lady,give me leave to ask you, whether  
             you married your Gown or your Person to your  
          
          
             Husband?  
             L. Coy. My Person.  
             M. Mediator. Then pull off your Gown , and go  
          
          
             unclothed to bed.  
             L. Coy. I would undress me, but I am ashamed to  
          
          
             lie with a Man.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. That shame is very unnecessary at this  
             time ; wherefore cast it off with your Clothes.  
          
          
             L. Coy. I am afraid to lie by a Man.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. That fear is an effeminate fear, and will  
             not last long ; wherefore undress, undress, for Loves sake.  
          
          
             L. Coy. I must go, and say my Prayers first.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Faith, Jove will dispence, with a Bride  
             one night ; the truth is,Bridal-Prayers are irreligious.  
          
          
             Enter a Maid in hast.  
          
          
             Maid. Here comes the Bridegroom and all the Gen-  
             tlemen attending him.  L.Coy.   
          
          
          
             12 The B R I D A L S. Act I.  
          
          
             L. Coy. O! shut the door, shut the door, for Ju-  
             piters sake.  
          
          
             The Scene to shut the door, the Men knock.  
          
          
             Adviser. Open the Door, and let the Bridegroom in,  
             M.Mediator. He cannot come as yet, the Bride's not  
          
          
             a bed.  
             Sir J. Amorous. Let me come in, or I'le break open  
          
          
             the door.  
          
          
             L. Coy. O keep him out, or I shall die for fear.  
          
          
             1 Lady. You shall not come, until we please.  
             Facil. Let us come, or we will enter by force.  
          
          
             1 Lady. You shall not, for we will defend the breach.  
             Courtly. With what? with what?  
          
          
             2 Lady. With our Tongues and Armes.  
          
          
             Courtly. Your Tongues are pointless and edgless,and  
          
          
             your Armes are weak defences.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. You shall find them otherwise; but  
             pray Sir J. Amorous carry away your unruly Regiment,  
             and we will promise you upon our words, and honours,  
             that as soon as the Bride is in Bed, we will come to  
             you and give you notice, then usher you into the  
             Bride-bed, with Epithalamiums.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amorous. Upon condition that you will bed  
             speedy, I will depart.  
          
          
             Ladies. We will, we will: Come Lady Coy to bed,  
             to bed, for shame. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The B R I D A L S. 13  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
          
          
             Enter Sir William Sage, with all the Gentlemen, his Bri-  
             dal-Guests; passing over the Stage, and going away again ;  
             after them comes Sir John Amorous, as going to bed in  
             his Night-Gown , Madam Mediator and the Ladies  
             usher him, and when he passes , this Epithalamium is  
          
          
             sung.  
          
          
             Epithalamium.  
          
          
              N Ow at the Door  
             You'l stand no more,  
             But enter the Bridal-hed :  
             Where you will prove  
             The Sweets of Love  
             With God Hymen's banquet fed.  
          
          
             Then Noble Knight  
          
          
             Put out the Light,  
             Her flaming Eyes will guide you;  
             And in her Armes  
             Those Circled Charmes  
          
          
             In Wedlock's Islands hide you.  
          
          
             Now all the joyes  
             Of Girls and Boyes,  
             Of sweeter pledges send you,  
             And know no strife  
             'Twixt Man and Wife,  
             But all the Blessings fend you.  
             Exeunt.  E  Enter   
          
          
          
             14 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Fancy, and Sir Mercury Poet, coming  
             out of the Bridal-Chamber together.  
          
          
             Mercury. Madam Fancy do not you wish to be a  
             Bride,and that this night were your Wedding night?  
          
          
             Fancy. I should be well content to be a Bride, and  
             to have a Wedding day, conditionly the day would  
             last to the end of my life ; but mistake me not, I mean  
             for the length of the day, not shortness of life.  
          
          
             Mercury. I perceive you would have no sleeping time.  
          
          
             Fancy. You mistake, I would have no Wedding  
             night. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT II. SCENE I.  
             Enter Facil and Adviser.  
          
          
             Adviser.  
              B Ut are you seriously in love with the Lady Coy,  
             the now Lady Amorous?  
             Facil. Yes seriously, butI may despair I shall ne-  
             ver compass my desires.  
             Adviser. Faith, it is not probable you should ob-  
             tain them, but yet you had best try.  
             Facil. That were but to plunge my self deeper in-  
             to an unfortunate love.  
             Advser. But a wise Man will omit no industry to  
             compass his desires, neither do the Gods assist idle and  
          
          
             cowardly Men.  
              Facil.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The B R I D A L S. 15  
          
          
             Facil. But she is not only new Married , but so  
             guarded with Modesty and Vertue, as unlawful love  
             cannot get audience, much less a favour.  
          
          
             Adviser. Faith, if I were you, I would try in despite  
             of her Modesty and Vertue.  
          
          
             Facil. I dare not.  
             Adviser. Fie ! a Lover and a Coward! when the  
          
          
             worst is but to be denied ; but yet I would take many  
          
          
             denials, before I would desist of my Suit; and if you  
          
          
             do not pursue it, you partly deny your self.  
             Facil. How should I make my love known unto her?  
             Adviser. By some Lady confident, or she-servant  
             Favourite; as also by Complemental Letters, and Love-  
             Verses made in her praise; befides, making Balls and  
             Collations to entertain her.  
             Facil. I'le take your Counsel.  
             Enter Mimick in hast.  
             Adviser. But stay, here comes Mimick the Lady A-  
             morous Fool,who will be the fittest of all for this Employ-  
             ment; I'le speak to him : Stay, stay,honest friend, and  
             let us speak a word or two.  
             Mimick goes on in bast.  
             Mimick. God be with you, Sir.  
             Adviser. But will not you stay, a word or two?  
             Mimick. Sir, I have stay'd twice two, that is four;  
             nay by the Mass it was fix at least; for you have asked  
             me twice to stay, till you speak a word or two, and a  
             word, and a word, and two and two is fix , by my  
          
          
             Cat-  
          
          
          
             16 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Calculation ; and if you speak a word and two more,  
             it will make three times three, that is just nine, the  
             Golden Number, if I be not mistaken.  
             Adviser. You are right, friend.  
             Mimick. A right friend is a great friend, and a great  
             friend is a good friend; and so God be ith you, Sir.  
             Adviser. Nay stay and tell me, are not you the  
             Lady Amorous Mimick?  
             Mimick. No truly, Sir,I am the Lady Vertue's Mi-  
             mick, and the Lady Amorous Fool.  
          
          
             Adviser. What, do you serve both the Ladies?  
          
          
             Mimick. I am at both the Ladies service, Sir ; God  
          
          
             help me and give me Grace to please them well.  
             Adviser. Thou art an honest fellow.  
             Mimick. But an honest fellow cannot serve two  
             Mistresses, the more the pity!  
             Adviser. But you may serve this Gentleman, and he  
             will serve thee; for if thou will but conveigh Letters,  
             or can any way bring him to the private speech of the  
             Lady Amorous, he will reward you bountifully.  
             Mimick. I like the reward well ; but I do not serve  
             the Lady Amorous, but the Lady Vertue ; but she being  
             my Ladies Friend, and her Maid my Friend, I shall  
             do my endeavour to deserve his gifts. Exit Mimick.  
             Adviser. Faith, I doubt not, but our design will go  
             on well.  
          
          
             Facil. I wish it may.  
          
          
              Exit   
          
          
             Scene. I. The B R I D A L S 17  
             Exit Facil at one door, and Adviser at another, who  
             meets Take-pleasure as in hast.  
             Adviser. Whether away so fast, Take-pleasure?  
             Take-pleas. I am going to a Company of Ladies  
             that have sent for me.  
          
          
             Adviser. Let me go with you; for one Man can ne_  
             ver please a company of Ladies; and surely it seems  
          
          
             they are in great distress, otherwise they would not  
          
          
             have sent for you in such hast.  
             Take-pleas. Not sent for me! why, what do you  
             think of me ?  
             Adviser. Why, I think you are a good fellow , and  
          
          
             love a Mistress well; but I do not think you the Grand  
             Signior.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. If I were, you should not come near my  
             Seraglio.  
          
          
             Adviser. But let me go with thee to these Ladies,  
             for they are not in a Seraglio, nor never will be ; they  
             love their liberty so well.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. I am content, upon condition, you do  
          
          
             not so much as look upon those Ladies I court.  
          
          
             Adviser. But how if these Ladies look upon me?  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Yes, there is the mischief ; therefore you  
             shall not go.  
          
          
             Adviser. But if you let me go, I'le promish you, I'le  
             wink to those Ladies that look on me.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Winking is more dangerous then if you  
          
          
             should plainly woo them; for winking is a kind of  
          
          
              Woo-   
          
          
          
             18 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Wooing,and will win a Lady as soon as words will do.  
             Adviser. Then I will shut both my eyes.  
             Take-pleas. That will be worse, for that will put them  
             in mind of going to bed; it will be like sleeping.  
             Adviser. Prithee let me go, and order me as you will.  
             Take-pleas. Welcome, and as we go I'le tell you, how  
             you shall behave your self to those Ladies.  
             Adviser. I will be govern'd according to your in-  
             structions. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E II.  
             Enter M. Mediator, and the Female-Guests, the day  
          
          
             after the Wedding,to the Lady Amorous , who sits  
          
          
             in a shaded place , and Curtains drawn about her, a  
             Maid stands by.  
          
          
             M Mediator.  
              VV Here is the Lady Coy,the now Lady Amorous?  
             Maid. There ; my Lady is within those  
             Curtains.  
             M. Mediator. Why are you so benighted, as to have  
             your Curtains drawn so darkly about you ?  
             L. Amorous. I do not love the light.  
             M. Mediator. Are you faln out with the light?  
             L. Amorous. In truth I am ashamed to see the light.  
             M. Mediator. Ashamed! let's see your face, whether  
             you blush or not?  
              The   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 19  
          
          
             The Lady offers to draw the Curtain, the Lady Amorous  
             endeavours to hold it, and hideth her self behind it.  
          
          
             L. Amorous. O fie! for Cupid and Venus sake do not  
             look upon me , for if you do, I shall die with blushing.  
          
          
             Ladies. Come, come, we will see you.  
          
          
             L. Amorous. l'le rather run away.  
          
          
             She runs away , the Ladies follow her , and meet the  
          
          
             Lady Vertue.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Madam, we were a going to see how  
             you appear, since are a Wife.  
             L.Vertue. I hope I do not appear worse then I did,  
             when I was a Maid; for I have not been Married so  
          
          
             long as to have Children, Cares and Troubles,to decay  
          
          
             my Youth and Beauty.  
             M. Mediator. No, but we did imagine you would  
             have been as most Brides are , shame-faced, and out of  
          
          
             Countenance.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Why so, since Marriage is lawful, honest,  
             and honourable? for if Marriage had been an act, that  
             deserves a blush, I would not have Married.  
          
          
             2 Lady. But the Lady Coy, the now Lady Amorous,  
             your fellow-Bride, is so out of Countenance, and doth  
             to blush, as she is asham'd to appear in the light , and  
             is forced to shut her eyes through shame, when her  
          
          
             Husband looks upon her.  
             L. Vertue. Why, hath she deceived her Husband?  
          
          
             was she not a Virgin when she Married, that she is so  
          
          
             out of Countenance as not to return her Husbands looks  
              2 Lady?   
          
          
          
             20 The B R I D A LS. Act II.  
          
          
             2 Lady. No, it is, that she is so extream modest.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Modesty is only ashamed of dishonestly,  
             and not of that, which is honest to the Laws of God,  
             Nature, and all civil Nations and People ; but to an-  
             swer for my self, if my Husband approves, likes, and  
             is pleased with me, I have no reason to out of Coun-  
             tenance; and I hope my Vertue is such, as not to be a-  
          
          
             shamed of the light! But come Ladies, I have prepared  
          
          
             a Banquet, to which I invite you, to join with me in  
             rejoicing at my happy Union. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E III.  
             Enter Monsieur Adviser,and Monsieur Facil,to Monsieur  
             Courtly, who is sitting at the Table, and writing.  
          
          
             Monsieur Adviser.  
          
          
              VV Hat! writing!  
             Courtly. I am casting up some Accounts.  
             Adviser. Faith, I will see what a good Husband  
             you are.  
          
          
             He takes up the Paper.  
          
          
             Courtly. That Paper is the account of yesterday's  
          
          
             expence.  
          
          
             Adviser. I can judge a day's expense a week's,  
             and by a week's a year's.  
             Courtly. That you cannot, for some days and weeks  
             are more expensive then others.  
          
          
              Adviser.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 21  
          
          
             Adviser. Faith, at the years end several sums comes  
          
          
             to one and the same yearly sum, as so much yearly  
             spent.  
             Courtly. Indeed for the most part it doth.  
          
          
             Adviser. Leave your talking, and let me read your  
             Expences, this is the yesterday's expence; let me see, here  
             is the account of the expence of Ushering four Ladies.  
          
          
             Imprimis, To a Sexton, to place four Ladies in several  
             Pews in a Puritan Church , to hear a holy Brother  
             preach, 2 Crowns.  
          
          
             Item,For Syllabubs in the Park for thole Ladies, 20 s  
             For two little baskets of Cherries, that hold some  
             dozen Cherries a piece, but the first of this year, 15 s.  
             To the Keeper of the Park-gate, half a Crown.  
             Item. for Cheesecakes and Rhennish-Wine in the fine  
          
          
             Garden for thole Ladies, 20 s.  
             To a Fortune-teller, to tell thole Ladies their For-  
             tunes, 40 s.  
          
          
             Also to the Door-keeper of the Garden, half a Crown.  
             Item. for a Supper for those Ladies at my Lodg-  
             ings, 5 l.  
             To the Musick, 3 l.  
             for Torches to light those Ladies home to their  
             Lodgings, 5 shill.  
             The total comes to 13 l. 15 s.  
             You might have saved the 5 s.for Torch-light , by  
             keeping those Ladies all night in your Lodgings.  
             Courtly. I should have been a loser by that thrift.  
              G  Facil.   
          
          
          
             22 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Fail. But do you spend every day thus much on  
             Ladies?  
          
          
             Courtly. Not every day, but most days I do.  
          
          
             Adviser. And after one and the same manner , and  
             in the same places, and with the same Ladies ?  
          
          
             Courtly. No, I have variety for my money.  
          
          
             Facil. Why, that is some comfort to you , and  
             pleasure to the Ladies; but will it hold out?  
          
          
             Courtly. No, faith, for neither my purse nor person  
             will hold out ; wherefore I must leave off to play the  
             Gentleman-usher to Ladies, and go into the Country.  
          
          
             Adviser. You had better be the fore-horse in a Cart,  
             then first Gentleman-usher in a Coach ; ushering is so  
             laborious; besides, the intollerable charge; in so much  
             that you may with less expence maintain a whole Vil-  
          
          
             lage of Country Wives with their Daughters and Maid-  
             servants,then entertain one Lady; moreover, thole Vil-  
             lages will serve you, when as you are forced through  
             civility to serve the Ladies.  
          
          
             Courtly. You say true; therefore I'le go into the  
             Country.  
          
          
             Adviser. But will not thole Ladies follow you ?  
          
          
             Courtly. I cannot tell.  
          
          
             Adviser. Let me tell you, That is to be consider'.d;  
             and I would not have you go into the Country, for I  
             and the rest of your friends would be sorry to lose  
             your Company.  
          
          
             Courtly. Faith, the Ladies ingross me so much, as I  
          
          
              have   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B RI D A L S. 23  
          
          
             have no time to fay my Prayers, or to think of my  
             self, much less to keep Company with my friends.  
             Fa.It seems you do not take theLadies to be your friends.  
          
          
             Courtly. If they be, they are very troublesome , and  
             chargeable friends, which Friends, I could be well con-  
             tent to be quit off, if I could tell how or which way.  
          
          
             Adviser. There be a hundred wayes to shake off  
             those Ladies, if you will.  
          
          
             Courtly. No faith, I cannot; for they stick as close as  
             burres, unless I should rudely quarrel with them, and  
             basely railed against them ; and if I did, it would be a  
             question still whether I should be quit of them?  
          
          
             Adviser. Let me advise you, how you may civilly  
             be quit of them.  
          
          
             Courtly. I shall gladly follow your advice.  
          
          
             Adviser. Do not visit them, out of some pretence  
             you are not well.  
          
          
             Courtly. If I do not visit them, they'l visti me.  
          
          
             Adviser. Then pretend some Law-suit.  
          
          
             Courtly. Faith,they will follow me, and go to all the  
             Courts of Judicature,tohear myCausepleadedandjudged.  
          
          
             Adviser. Then go to a Tavern every day, they will  
             not follow you thither.  
          
          
             Courtly. Yes faith, some of them will, at least to the  
             Tavern door in their Coaches to require my Company;  
             butwhosoever, they will send messenger after messenger  
             to hasten me to them, pretending earnest business; and  
             when I come, 'tis either to usher them to a Play, or to  
          
          
              Church,   
          
          
          
             24 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Church, or to the Exchange, or to the places of plea-  
             sure, or to the Fields, Park, or Garden, or else to some  
             Ball, or particular meeting, or to some Picture-drawer,  
             or to play at Cards, or the like; and to Man them to  
             these places, they will send to me, before I am up or  
             awake; the truth is, they will not let me rest in quiet.  
             Facil. But this is a slavish life.  
             Courtly. It is so.  
             Adviser. But do they never reward thy service,  
             Courtly ?  
             Courtly. Yes, as the Devil doth his Servants.  
             Adviser. How is that?  
             Courtly. With fire; for they send me hot burning  
             Spirits, which are called Cordials.  
             Adviser. It seems they think you want strength.  
             Courtly. I must needs, when they tire me off my  
             legs, ushering them from place to place.  
             Fail. Do they give thee no Amorous favours?  
             Courtly. Yes ; but they are better pleased, I should  
             prevent them, and take favours from them before they  
             are presented.  
          
          
             Facil. But that is some recompence for thy time and  
             charge.  
             Courtly. The recompence, if you call it so , is the  
             worse ; for I had rather give them my Estate, then re-  
             ceive their Rewards; for though they make their fa-  
             vours, as a reward to their Courting-servants; yet their  
             rewards are their chief pleasures , and the rewarded  
          
          
              pains   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 25  
          
          
             pains for their Courting servants, lose more health by  
             their favours, then they get wealth in their service.  
          
          
             Adviser. The last advice is, you must be as if you  
             were drunk.  
          
          
             Courtly. That advice is worst of all; for then they are  
             so busie, and make such puddering about me, to lay me  
             to sleep, as they make me almost mad.  
          
          
             Adviser. You have said so much, as I perceive your  
             own advice is the best, to go into the Country; and  
             if the Country will not save your body, life and estate,  
             from these Locust-Ladies, you must travel into some  
             other Kingdom.  
          
          
             Courtly; If I do, they will follow me; for Ladies are  
             as far-travellers in this age, as the Men; and know some  
          
          
             Gentlemen that are followed by Ladies out of one King-  
          
          
             dom into another, so as they do not know whether to  
             go, for the World is not sufficient to hide or obscure  
          
          
             them from the Ladies search.  
          
          
             Adviser. Why, then most of the Men must turn  
             Fryers, for that is to live in this, world, as if they liv'd  
             out of it.  
          
          
             Courtly. That shift will not serve their turn; for if  
             the Cavaliers turn Fryers, the Ladies will turn Nunnes,  
             and then make those Fryers their Confessors.  
          
          
             Adviser. Then there is no way for Men to escape  
             those Ladies followers.  
          
          
             Courtly. Yes, there is one way.  
          
          
             Adviser. What way is that?  
          
          
              H  Courtly.   
          
          
          
             26 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Courtly. You must excuse me, for I will not de-  
             clare it. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Facil, and he speaks to himself.  
          
          
             Facil. I wonder Mimick stays so long, and doth  
          
          
             not bring me an answer yet, from the Lady Amorous.  
          
          
             Enter Mimick.  
          
          
             But here he is.  
             Facil. Monfieur Mimick! well met ; have you deli-  
             vered my Letter tothe Lady Amorous?  
          
          
             Mimick. Yes, Mr.Facil, I did deliver it to her.  
          
          
             Fail. And how did she receive it?  
          
          
             Mimick. Faith, she received your Letter, as all Wo-  
             men do Love-Presents.  
          
          
             Facil. How is that?  
          
          
             Mimick. With an outward dislike, and an inward  
             affection.  
          
          
             Facil. If she received my Letter , with a displeased  
             countenance, I judg she doth not love me.  
          
          
             Mimick. Then your judgment is not wise; for love  
             lives not in the countenance, but in the heart.  
          
          
             Facil. But the Countenance expresses love; for a  
             well pleased Countenance, expresses a well affected  
             hearts.  
          
          
             Mimick. if you ground your belief on a Woman  
             Countenance, you will be deceived; for Womens  
             Countenances for the most part are as false as their faces;  
             the one is glast with smiles, as the other with Pomatum;  
             and dissembling modesty is like Spanish Red, which is  
          
          
              soon   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 27  
          
          
             soon rub'd off with acquaintance and jealousie; or a  
             peevish humour wipes off their smiles; so that there is  
             no trust in their Countenances; for they change every  
             minute of an hour; wherefore, they are unskilful Men,  
             and unhappy Lovers, that steer the course of their de-  
             sires, by the Card of their Mistresses Countenances,  
             which vary almost every moment , or by the Stars of  
             their Mistresses eyes, which are wandring Planets. The  
             truth is, most Lovers have troublesome Voyages in  
             love, by reason all Womens minds are as inconstant  
             as the wind.  
          
          
             Facil. But I hope, by your favour and industry for  
          
          
             me, to the Lady, my Voyage will be easie and free.  
          
          
             Mimick. Do you believe I have power on your  
             Mistress mind, as the Witches of Lapland have on the  
          
          
             Winds?  
             Facil. Faith, Monkies,Dogs, Parrots, and Fools, are  
             powerful with Women, especially with Ladies.  
             Mimick. Then deliver your Love-letters to the  
             Ladies Monkys, tell your Love-Messages to the Ladies  
             Parrots, and give your Love-Collations to the Ladies  
             Dogs, and your Love-bribes to my Ladies Fool.  
          
          
             Facil. It is the easiest way ; only to employ her  
             Fool, and to encourage you, I give you five Pounds  
             for the present, and more I promise you hereafter, to  
             plead my suit, and to speak in my behalf.  
          
          
             Mimick. Faith, your case is so bad , as it requires a  
          
          
             witty and ingenuous knave to make it seem a good case,  
              and   
          
          
          
             28 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             and an eloquent Orator to make it seem a clear case;  
          
          
             For Oratory makes a foul case seem fair, and great fees  
             makes an Orator's wit quick, and his tongue smooth.  
          
          
             Facil. Well, I will trust to your Knavery, wish  
          
          
             well to your Oratory, and hope Fortune will favour  
          
          
             your Wisdom.  
             Mimick. You mistake ; for Fortune never favours  
             wise Men, but Fools. Exit Facil.  
          
          
             Mimick. Well, craft shall serve for wisdom, and the  
             chief part of my craft must be to Fool this Lover, or  
             rather to cozen him; for Lovers are Fools of Cupid's  
             making, and they wear Fools Coats in Cupid's Court.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter the Lady Vertue, and Sir William Mimick,  
          
          
             who stems to be in a very serious study, not taking  
             any notice of his Master and Lady.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. Surely Mimick has State-matters in his  
          
          
             head, he is so studious and serious.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Mimick?  
          
          
             He doth not answer.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Why Mimick, are you deaf ?  
          
          
             Mimick. I am somewhat thick of hearing.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. But Mimick, let us know what is the  
             cause you are in so serious a study.  
             Mimick. I am considering with my self , what pro-  
             session I shall be of.  
          
          
              L. Vertue   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 29  
          
          
             L.Vertue. And what Profession have you chosen to  
             be of ?  
          
          
             Mimick. I have not chosen any as yet, for I waver  
             in my mind amongst many Professions, as an amorous  
             Lover doth amongst many Ladies, not resolving which  
             to address himself to ; for though he would enjoy them  
             all, yet he can court but one at a time; and though he  
             resolveth to court all , yet he can but enjoy one at a  
             time.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. But he may court and enjoy them all,  
             one after another.  
          
          
             Mimick. Faith, that is an endless Work; for before the  
          
          
             last Lady is courted and enjoyed, he will be forced to  
          
          
             be of the Profession old Priest, to preach his own fune-  
             ral Sermon, or of a Sexton, to dig his own grave: But  
             leaving Priests and amorous Lovers , what Profession  
             shall l be of?  
          
          
             L. Vertue, What think you of being a Courtier?  
          
          
             Mimick. There are so many Court-fools, that they  
             never thrive with that Profession ; for what they get  
             by flattery, they spend in vanity.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. What think you of being a Lawyer?  
          
          
             Mimick. The Law is more of the Knaves then the  
             Fool's fide, therefore I shall never thrive in that Pro-  
             fession.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. What think you of being a Merchant?  
          
          
             Mimick. I could Traffick with Jest, but I am afraid  
             in some of my Ventures I should have my head broke;  
          
          
              there-   
          
          
          
             30 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             therefore, I will not be of that Profession.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. What think you of being a States-man?  
             Mimick. Faith, I think I am fool enough to be a  
          
          
             States-man, but I have not Formality enough; besides,  
             I shall make such disorders and disturbances in State-  
             affairs , as I may chance to kill'd in an uproar or  
             seditious Tumult.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. What think you of being a Soldier?  
          
          
             Mimick. No, for I am more safe from danger in my  
             Fools Coat, then they in their Iron-arms ; and shall  
             get more by a Fool's Profeffion, then a Soldiers.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. What think you of being a Scholar?  
          
          
             Mimick. That I am now; for I learn every day to  
             play the Fool better and better.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. What think you of being a City-Magi-  
             strate?  
          
          
             Mimick. I like that the best ; for my Fools Coat  
             will serve for my Magistrates Gown ; but yet I am a-  
             fraid of the Common-people in these seditious times.  
          
          
             SirW. Sage. What think you of being a Traveller?  
          
          
             Mimick. O Lord! so I may travel to my wit's end.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. What think you of being a Chymist?  
          
          
             Mimick. Faith, I get more Gold by playing the  
             Fool with Lords and Ladies, then Chymists do by  
             playing the Fools with Fire and Furnace.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. Then I think you had best continue  
          
          
             your own Profession still, which is play the Fool.  
             Mimick. But my Profession of playing the Fool is  
          
          
              a gene-   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 31  
          
          
             a general Profession, and I would fain have a particular  
             Profession; for there few Men but have some other  
             Profession besides their Natural Profession; Wherefore,  
             I must study some other Profession.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. What you think then of being a  
             Vintner?  
          
          
             Mimick. My Guests will drink up my Wine, and  
             leave me their Scores ; lie with my Wife, and give her  
             the Pox; and if have not handsom Woman to my  
             Wife, I shall have no Guests.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. What think you of being a Taylor?  
          
          
             Mimick. I shall have only my Measures for my pains,  
             and the shreds for my labour.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. What think you of being a Usurer?  
          
          
             Mimick. So a Fool and his Money would be soon  
             parted, and I shall have bonds for my Money; but a  
             hundred to one if get my Money by the bonds.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. What think you of being an Amorous  
             Lover?  
          
          
             Mimick. I shall woo more Mistresses,then I shall win,  
             and win more Mistresses then I shall use.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. But you may get rich Wife, if you  
             Woo well.  
          
          
             Mimick. If I should Woo the best of any Man, I shall  
             sooner get the Pox with a Mistress, then VVealth with  
             a VVife; for Fortune is the only Match-maker.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. But there is a saying, That Fools have  
             Fortune.  
          
          
              Mimick.   
          
          
          
             32 The B R I D A L S. Act II.  
          
          
             Mimick. Not all fools ; for there be more Fools then  
             good fortune; the truth is, There are so many Fools,  
             as it is impossible for Fortune to favour them all.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. But Fortune may favour those that are  
             most foolish.  
          
          
             Mimick. Then she will not favour me; wherefore  
             I'le reject Fortune, relie upon my own wit.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Your VVit is so weak, as it cannot up-  
             hold you.  
          
          
             Mimick. I'le try the strength of it , and when I fall  
             for want of VVit, it is proper time for Fortune to  
             raise me up to shew her power.  
          
          
             SirW. Sage. VVell,we will leave you to your study,  
             and when you have chosen a Profession, I suppole you  
             will make us acquainted with it.  
          
          
             Mimick. No doubt of it; for you must help to put  
             me into practise. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Longlife , and Mr. Aged.  
          
          
             Aged. Longlife. How are you since you went abroad,  
          
          
             Long. Very well, I thank you Mr. Aged.  
          
          
             Aged. Iam now come to you, ask you a questi-  
             on, whether you would not think it were wise for us,  
             we having only two Childrenyou, aSon and IaDaugh-  
             ter, to match them together, and so we being both  
             rich, we may joyn our Estat e s together, by joyning  
             our Children together which Will make them both flow  
             in plenty,  
          
          
             Long. I like your proposition , concerning the joyn-  
          
          
              ing   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 33  
          
          
             ing our riches together, by joyning our Children to-  
             gether: But my Son is a Wit, Mr. Aged , and your  
             Daughter I hear is a Wit; and if their wits be joyned  
             together, it may over power their Wealth ; for Wit and  
             Wealth doth never agree together ; For wit regards not  
             Wealth,and wealth regards not wit ; which is the reason  
             that thosee,which have most Wit,( which are Poets) are  
             poor ; For you shall seldom read , or hear, That natu-  
             ral Poets are rich. And both our Children being Poeti-  
             cal, should we marry them together , would undo  
          
          
             them.  
             Aged. By the Mass , you say true.  
             Long. Then we must endeavour to marry our Chil-  
             dren to Fooles; you must provide a foolish man for  
             your Daughter, and I a foolish woman for my Son;  
             That the dulness of the Fool, may allay the quickness of  
             the Wit, which will make a good temper, causing them to  
          
          
             thrive in wealth, and to increase Posterity ; for let me  
          
          
             tell you, That great Wits for the most part have few  
             Children, but what their brain produces, which are Ideas,  
             Inventions and Opinions; Ideas are Daughters; Inven-  
             tions are Sons, and Opinions Hermaphrodites; and the  
             production of these IncorporealChildren,hinders the pro-  
             duction of Corporeal Children ; and we both desire to  
             have Corporeal Grand-Children to uphold our Families.  
          
          
             Aged. You say wifely, Mr. Long-life; and therefore,  
             we must endeavour to marry our Children to Fools, for  
          
          
             the Wealth and Posterities of our Families. Exeunt.  
              K   ACT   
          
          
          
             34 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             ACT III. SCENE I.  
             Enter Sir John Amorous, and his Lady.  
          
          
              L Ady Sir John, Sir John, I take it very unkindly,  
             that you should go abroad,and leavemy Company?  
          
          
             Sir J. Amor. Sometimes, Wife, to be absent from each  
             other, is a refreshment, and Temperance is part of Pru-  
             dence.  
             Lady. I love not such Refreshments, Temperance,  
             and Prudence ; wherefore, you must either stay at home  
             and keep me Company, or I shall seek other Company  
             elsewhere.  
          
          
             Exit Lady. Sir J. Amorous Solus.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amor. That will be some ease; for I had ra-  
             ther be a Cuckold then be bound to one Woman,  
             especially my Wife.  
          
          
             Enter his Wife's Maid.  
             Sir J. Amor. Mal, I'le prefer thee.  
          
          
             Maid. I thank you, Master.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amor. I'le prefer thee from my Servant, to be  
             my Mistress.  
          
          
             Maid. If you had been unmarried, and would pre-  
             fer me from being your Mistress, to be your Wife, I  
             should have taken it for an honour.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amor. But l am Married, Mal, and thou shalt  
             take thy Ladie's place, in thy Ladie's absence.  
          
          
             Maid. l had rather Marry Tom your Butler lawfully,  
             then lie with my Master unlawfully.  Sir   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 35  
             Sir J. Amor. Why, Mal, Love is lawful, and to serve  
          
          
             your Master is lawful; wherefore, it is lawful to serve  
          
          
             your Master's Love.  
             Maid. But some kinds of Love are unlawful, and  
          
          
             some kinds of Service are unlawful; for it is unlawful to  
          
          
             love Vice, and unlawful to serve the Devil; where-  
          
          
             fore it is unlawful to be my Master's Whore.  
          
          
             Sir J. Amor. To be your Master's Whore, is to be  
             your Master's Mistress; and to be the Butler's Wife, is  
             to be the Butler's Slave; but I'le leave you to the But-  
             ler's droppings of his Taps: But howsoever, Consider  
             it well, Mal, for you will be good enough for the  
             Butler afterwards. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter Sir William Sage and his Lady.  
          
          
             Sir William Sage.  
              I  Wonder that Mimick is not here! for his Company  
             is very delightful, to pass away idle ; time for idle  
             time is only free for Fools Company.  
          
          
             Lady. He is rather a Knave then a Fool; but here  
             he comes.  
             Enter Mimick.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. Mimick, have you chosen a Profession  
             yet?  
             Mimick. Yes, marry have I, for I intend to be an  
          
          
             Orator.  Sir   
          
          
          
             36 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. If you be a professed Orator, I suposse  
             you have studied a speech.  
             Mimick. Yes, I have studied, as Orators use to do, in  
          
          
             making an Oration ; for I have rackt my Brain, stretch'd  
             my Wit, strapado'd my Memory,tortured my thoughts,  
             and kept my Sences awake.  
          
          
             SirW. Sage. Certainly, it is a very eloquent and wise  
          
          
             Oration, since you have taken so much pains.  
          
          
             Mimick. Labour and Study is not a certain rule for  
             wise, witty, or eloquent Orations or Speeches;for many  
             studied Speeches are very foolish : But will you hear my  
             Speech ?  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. I will.  
          
          
             Mimick. But then Master, you must stand for, signi-  
             fie, or represent a Multitude, or an Assembly.  
             SirW.Sage. That is impossible, being but a single  
             person.  
          
          
             Mimick. Why doth not a single Figure stand for a  
             Number, as the Figureof Five, Eight or Nine,and join-  
             ing Ciphers to them, they stand for so many Hundreds,  
             or Thousands: And here be two Joint-Stools, one of  
             which Stools and you Lady shall serve for two Ciphers  
             andy Master for the Figure of Nine, and so you two  
             and the Joint-Stool make Nine hundred.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. But if the Assembly be so big, as to be  
             a Company of Nine hundred they cannot all stand so  
             near, as to hear what you speak, neither can your voice  
             reach to the Circumference Ears.  
          
          
              Mimick   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 37  
          
          
             Mimick. The greatest Glory of an orator is to have  
             Crouds of People follow him, and those that hear the  
             least will praise him the most ; and the truth is, That all  
             Orators gain more renown by those that do not hear  
             them, but only see them, then by those that stand so  
             near, as to hear what they speak; for there is ten to one  
             of those that do not hear them , to thole that  
             do hear chem ; So that if thole that do  
             hear them, should dispraise their Orations, yet those  
             that hear them not; will commend them, and having  
             tento one of their side , they may say what they will,  
             they shall be applauded , and the most Voices carry  
             them up to Fame's Tower; which considering, I will  
             set another Joint-stool as another Cipher to my Lady,  
             and three Ciphers, with the Figure of Nine, my Master,  
             will make it Nine thousand.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. As many as you please.  
          
          
             Mimick. But what shall I have for a Pulpit or stan-  
             ding place? for I must mount above all the Assembly?  
          
          
             Lady. Take another Joint-stool,and stand upon that.  
             Mimick. O fie! that will not appear well; besides,I  
          
          
             shall stand tottering, ready to fall, and the very fear of  
             falling, will put out of my Speech.  
          
          
             Lady. But you will appear standing upon a Joint-  
             stool, like as a Statue upon a Pedistal.  
          
          
             Mimick. I should be well pleased to have a Statue  
             made for me, and set up as an honour and remembrance  
             of me; but I shall not be please to stand as a Statue  
             my self.  L  Sir   
          
          
          
             38 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage.Why then get a Tub; and stand in that.  
          
          
             Mimick. A Tub will not do me any service, unless  
             it be a mounted Tub. But for this time I'le stand upon  
             the Table, Without Tub or Case, to speak the naked  
             truth; and thus I ascend.  
             He ascends upon the Table.  
          
          
             Lady. Begin.  
          
          
             Mimick. Stay, I must breathe first, hawk, spit, blow  
             my nose, humm, and look gravely round about upon  
             the People, and then speak at first in a low voice, then  
             raise my Voice by degrees, until I come to the highest  
          
          
             strain of point.  
          
          
             He Speaks.  
              N Oble, Honourable, and Worthy Auditors, I am  
             come here to speak of a Subject which concerns  
             all Men ; which General Subject is Women; and I am  
             not only to Treat of Women, which is an easie Sub-  
             ject to be Treated of; but of the Chastity of Women,  
             which is an hard, frozen Subject ; and so hard frozen  
             it is, that all the heat-Love can bring is not able to  
             thaw it; the truth is, Chastity is a Subject, that lives at  
             a great distance; for though the two Names, Woman  
             and Chastity, are oft times joined together, yet the several  
             Subjects of those Names, dwell nor near each other ; for  
             Chastity dwells at the Poles, where no Woman is ; and  
             Women dwell or inhabit the Torrid Zone , where no  
              Chasti-   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 39  
          
          
             Chastity is: Thus you mar receive that Names are  
             more easily joined, then the things they signifie ; but  
             how to bring Chastity and Women together, is the dif-  
             ficulty, indeed so difficult cas it is impossible ; and as im-  
             possible as for hot Hell and cold Heaven to meet, or  
             for gods and devils to be friends : But noble Auditors  
             the Names Chast Women being join'd together, are  
             sufficient; for that Conjunction of Names contents,  
             satisfies and pleases all Men, as Fathers, Sons, Brothers  
          
          
             and Husbands, that would haver their Daughters, Sist-  
          
          
             ers, Mothers and Wives Chast ; and as for Amorous  
             Lovers, they are pleased to have the Subjects dwell at  
             distance; so that Art and Natures, Deceit and Verity  
             have agreed together to make all Men happy , so far  
          
          
             as concerns Women.  
          
          
             Lady. Leave off your Praring , or I'le fling one of  
          
          
             these Ciphers at your head.  
          
          
             Mimick. Will not your let me speak out my Ora-  
          
          
             tion ?  
             Lady. No, unless it were better.  
          
          
             Mimick. If you will let me speak out my Speech,I'le  
             make the two Poles meet in the very forehead of the  
             Torrid Zone of a Man's head.  
          
          
             Lady. I'le hear no more; wherefore, come off from  
             the Table.  
             Mimick. Well, I obey, although I am vexed at the  
          
          
             heart, that I must not speak out my Speech, as also to  
          
          
             be disgraced before and Assembly of Nine thousand.  
              Lady.   
          
          
          
             40 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             Lady. You knavish Fool, what cause invited, per-  
             swaded, or commanded you to speak an Oration con-  
             cerning the Chastity of women?  
          
          
             Mimick. That which perswaded me to speak an O-  
             ration, and not only an Oration , but a factious or  
             malicious Oration was that which perswaded all Ora-  
             tors; first, self-love to show their Wit; next, their ill  
             Nature to make a division and dissention amongst  
             Mankind.  
          
          
             Lady. Well, since you have express'd the evil 0ra-  
             tors of these evil times, such as make Factions and Di-  
             visions ; I will express such Orators as ought to be;  
             and thus I'le speak to this Assembly.  
          
          
             She Speaks.  
              N Oble, Honourable and Worthy Auditors, l am  
             come hereto contradict a Knavish Fool , that  
             has spoken to the Disgrace of VVomen; saying, That  
             only the Names of VVomen and Chastity are joined  
             together, but thë Subjects dwell far asunder; which is  
             false ; for though some VVomen, as the scum of the  
             Female Sex, be Incontinent, yet all VVomen are not  
             so ; for some VVomen are Chast by Nature, others by  
             Vertue, and some by Honour : As for Vertue and  
             Honour, they are like to Plants set of planted by E-  
             ducation; and grow up like to tall Cedars or stron  
             Oaks in the Mind, which bear no evil fruits; as Vi-  
              ces   
          
          
             the B R I D A L s.  
          
          
             ces and base qualities, or evil and dishonest desires : But  
          
          
             Worthy Auditors, give me leave to tell you, That  
             Women are the unhappiest Creatures which Nature  
             ever made; not only that they are the most shiftless  
             Creatures, but the most abused of any other Creatures,  
             and only by Men; who do not only continually as-  
             sault them, and endeavour to corrupt and betray them,  
             but they have enslaved them, and do often defame  
             them with slanders and reproaches, vain glorious boasts,  
             and lying brags; the truth is, Men are like Devils to  
             Women, seeking whom they may devour; inticing,  
             alluring , perswading and flattering Women, to the  
             ruine of their Souls, Bodies, Minds, Fortunes, and  
             good Names; but Women are beloved and favoured  
             by the gods , who endue their Bodies With Beauty,  
             and their Minds with Spiritual Grace, their Thoughts  
          
          
             with Religious Zeal, and their Lives with Pious De-  
          
          
             votions which keeps their Bodies Cast, their Minds  
          
          
             pure, and their Lives Vertuous : But those few Wo-  
          
          
             men that are Incontinent, are rather Beasts then Wo-  
             men; but most Women are Angelical; and though  
             Men defame them, yet the Gods glorifie them.  
          
          
             Mimick. Lady, if you speak any longer of the Fe-  
             male Subject, you will cast them from Heaven into Hell;  
             for you cannot go beyond Heaven, Angels and Gods.  
          
          
             Lady. I am content to speak no more of them at  
             this time, but leave them in bliss.  
          
          
              M  Sit   
          
          
          
             42 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. Mimick, your Lady will be too hard  
          
          
             for you.  
             Mimick. Yes in Foolery, but not in Wit. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E IlI.  
             Enter Monsieur Adviser, and Monfieur Courtly.  
          
          
             Monsieur Courtly.  
          
          
              VV Here were you , that I did not see you all  
             yesterday, nor most part of this day?  
             Adviser. Faith, I was all the Morning at a Sermon  
             and at Noon I went to a Tavern, in the Afternoon  
             I went to a Play, and at night I went to a Common-  
             house, and from thence I went to the Gaming-house  
             and there I stay'd till late in the Morning ; and then  
             I went home, and lay ant slept so long, as I have hut  
             newly dined.  
             Courtly. Dined, say you ! why it is almost Supper-  
             time.  
             Adviser. Not with me.  
             Courtly. No; for you turn the Day into Night, and  
             Night into Day.  
             Adviser; I did not so yesterday.  
             Court. Yes, but you did ; for you spent all the day  
             in deeds of darkness.  
             Adviser. Will you say , that hearing a Sermon is a  
             deed of darkness?  
              Courtly.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 43  
          
          
             Courtly. Yes,unless you did profit by it, which I do  
             not perceive you did; the truth is, by your after-acti-  
             ons you seem the worse for it.  
          
          
             Adviser. I'le confess to you, my friend, that the  
             Sermon made me so dull and melancholy, as I was for-  
             ced to go a Tavern, to revive and comfort my Mind  
             with some Spiritual Liquor; and from thence I went  
             to a Play to recreate my Thoughts, and to take them  
             from all sad Contemplations , in seeing and hearing a  
             merry Comedy acted ; and the truth is, the Play made  
             me so lively, as became so wanton, that I was forced  
             to go to a Common-house, and after I had convers'd  
             With the VVoman, I was as dull and melancholy as  
             I was after the Sermon ; so then I went to the Gaming-  
             house for diversion, knowing I should meet store of  
             Company; and being there, I fell to play, where I lost  
          
          
             all my Money; for which I was so troubled, as I wish  
          
          
             my self dead, having not any Money left to live; and  
             being moneyless, I went home to bed, that I might  
             sleep and forget my loss for a time.  
          
          
             Courtly. But did not the thoughts of the loss hinder  
             your fleep?  
          
          
             Adviser. No faith; for my thoughts were so opprest  
             with grief, as they fell fast asleep, and so fast asleep they  
             were, as I did not dream.  
          
          
             Courtly. But now they are awake, they remember  
          
          
             your losses, do they not?  
          
          
             Adviser. Yes, but I will perswade you to go with me  
              to   
          
          
          
             44 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             to the Tavern, there to drink out the remembrance.  
          
          
             For when my head is fill'd with Vaporous VVine,  
          
          
             My thoughts for Losses will not then repine.  
          
          
             Enter Take-pleasure to Adviser and Courtly.  
             Courtly. Tom, Thou art Welcome.  
             Take-pleas. Go hang your self , for you are not a  
          
          
             Man of your word, for you promis'd meet me at  
             the Crown-Tavern, where I stay'd for you till twelve  
             a Clock last night, expecting your coming.  
          
          
             Courtly. And how did you pass away the solitary  
          
          
             time ?  
             Take-pleas. Faith, I call'd for some Tobacco, and a  
             pint of VVine, and then took a Pipe, then drunk  
             a glass of Wine, and you did not come; then I took  
             another Pipe, and drunk another glass of Wine, and  
             you did not come; so I took Pipe after Pipe, and  
             drunk Glass after Glass;, until the Pint-pot was empty;  
             then I call'd for another Pint, and another Pint, and  
             drunk them as the first; and still you stay'd, and still  
             I drunk so long as I was almost drunk, expecting your  
             Company; but at last finding my Stomack full, and  
             my head light, an the night far spent I went home and  
             so to bed.  
          
          
             Adviser. Without saying your Prayers?  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Faith, I could not say my Prayers for  
             Cursing of Courtly ; but at last I fell asleep with a Curse  
             in my mouth, which Curse found in my mouth  
             when I did awake in the morning  
          
          
              Adviser.   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The B R I D A L S. 45  
          
          
             Adviser. Did you swallow the Curse down, or spit  
             it out?  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Faith, it had almost choak'd me; for it  
             stuck so in my Throat, as I could neither get it up, nor  
             down, but at last I spit it out, for it was as bitter as  
             Gall.  
             Courtly. You had no reason to curse me, if you were  
             drunk; for the only design of our meeting at the Tavern,  
             was but to be drunk.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. That is true; but there is no pleasure to  
             be drunk without a Companion.  
          
          
             Courtly. The truth is, I could not come; for I was  
          
          
             forced against my will to Sup with a Lady.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Faith, Women spoile all good fellow-  
             ship;but I had been better Company for her last night,  
          
          
             then you were.  
             Courtly. Come, come, let us go to the same Tavern;  
          
          
             and there end all Quarrels. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E IV.  
             Enter Monsteur Facil , and Mimick.  
          
          
             Monfieur Facil.  
          
          
              M Aster Mimick, I am come according to your ap-  
          
          
             pointment.  
             Mimick. Then Mr. Facil you may depart according  
          
          
             to my appointment  
          
          
              N  Facil.   
          
          
          
             46 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             Facil. But you assured me, That if I came at this  
             hour, I should have access to your Lady.  
          
          
             Mimick. But Women change their mind every mi-  
             nute, and are in threescore several minds or humors in  
             an hour; and this minute the Lady is in a very angry  
             humor which will not agree with your amorous  
             humor.  
          
          
             Facil. But l'le stay until her angry humor is past.  
          
          
             Mimick. Then you may stay until you be weary;  
             for she will change out of one angry humor into a-  
             nother, until she hath run out an hour; for there be  
             many several kinds and sorts of angry Humors.  
          
          
             Facil. But I will stay an hour.  
          
          
             Mimick. But if you do , it is not likely that the  
             Lady will begin a humor to entertain your Courtly  
             address; for it is probable, as being most usual, that  
             from the last angry humor,she will change into the first de-  
          
          
             gree of a Melancholy humor.  
          
          
             Facil. Then I will attend two hours,until such time  
             as she will be out of her Melancholy humor.  
          
          
             Mimick. That will not do you any service; for out  
             of the last Melancholy humor she will change into a  
             pious humor, and so from one pious humor into a-  
             nother, until such time as she comes to weep like a Mary  
             Magdalen, and after floods of Tears she will fall fast a-  
             sleep; her Sences and Spirits being tired with Kneeling,  
             Praying, Sighing and Weeping, and after she awakes  
             from her devout sleep, she may chance to bestow a  
             Charity upon you.  Facil.   
          
          
             Scen. IV The B R I D A L S. 47  
          
          
             Facil. I'le attend in hope of that Charity.  
          
          
             Mimick. I perceive by you,that Lovers will take no  
             excuses or denials; but yet this last I hope will drive  
             you away, which is, The Lady has the Wind-collock;  
             wherefore she will not admit of a visit, especially A-  
             morous Suiters this day.  
          
          
             Facil. By this I find that you have fill'd me With  
             hope, to delude me.  
          
          
             Mimick. Let me tell you, that Love is the greatest  
             Deluder, or Cheater, especially Amorous Love; but to  
             keep you from dispair, he promise you (for Promises  
             keep Lovers alive) I will devise some way to corrupt  
             this Lady to your desires, although it requires much  
             labour, study, wit, and time, to corrupt Chastity; and  
             since my Service will be great, my Reward must  
             not be small.  
          
          
             Facil. Then here I give you Ten pounds to reward  
          
          
             your Knavery.  
          
          
             Exit Facil, Mimick Solus.  
             Mimick. Why, this is right as it should be, for one  
             Knave to Fee another, that Knavery may thrive.  
             Exeunt.  
             Enter Sir Mercury Poet, and the Lady Fancy.  
             Merc. Madam, I take it for a great favour and ob-  
             ligation, that you will receive my visit.  
             Fancy. it would be an Obligation to my self, to  
             oblige a worthy person , such as I believe you are,  
          
          
             but I do not perceive how I can merit thanks in recei-  
              ving   
          
          
          
             48 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
          
          
             ving your Visit, for I suppose you can better pass  
          
          
             your time, then with my dull Company, and unpro-  
          
          
             fitable Conversation.  
          
          
             Merc. It is a particular favour, because you do  
             not not usually receive Visits.  
          
          
             Fancy. The reason why I do not usually receive  
             Visits, is out of a respect to the Visiters , knowing I  
             have not Wit to entertain them, Speech to delight them,  
             nor Learning to profit them; so they would but lose  
             their time in visitng me; and I chuse rather to lose the  
             profit I might gain by hearing wise, witty, and learned  
             Visitors; then they should lose their time by learning  
             nothing themselves; for Wisdom and Wit desires to  
             advance in Knowledg, and not to stand at a stay; for  
             though prating Fools take pleasure to inform, and for-  
             mal Fools to reform; yet Wise Men delight to be in-  
          
          
             formed and reformed, through a noble ambition to at-  
             tain to perfecton.  
          
          
             Merc. Which Perfection, Madam you have ar-  
          
          
             rived to.  
          
          
             Fancy. That is impossible, for Nature hath made  
             Women so defective, as they are not capable of Per-  
             fection.  
          
          
             Merc. Madam, my Soul is wedded to your Ver-  
             tue, and my Contemplations to your Fancy, and my  
          
          
             Love and Person longs to be wedded to your Beauty  
             and Chastity.  
          
          
              And   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 49  
          
          
             And our Wits agree,  
          
          
             I'm sure you'l favour me.  
          
          
             For Wit the Brain doth move,  
             And causes Souls to love :  
          
          
             For Fools cannot love well,  
             Nor reason for Love tell ;  
             They understand not Merit,  
             Nor a Cœlestial Spirit.  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Aged.  
          
          
             Aged. How is that! Merit, Spirit, and I know not  
             what ! Daughter, I am come to forbid you the Com-  
             pany of Sir Mercury Poet, and that you receive not  
             any of his Visits : And Sir Mercury Poet , I do for-  
             bid you my Daughters Company.  
          
          
             Merc. Sir, I have not Visited your Daughter, with-  
             out your leave; for you were pleased to invite me to  
             wait on your Daughter.  
          
          
             Aged. 'Tis true, for I did believe, (by reason your  
             Father and I being old acquaintance,andloving friends,  
             and both being rich, and having Children, he a Son,  
             and a Daughter) it might be very proper and fit to  
             have agreed to have matched you together; but since  
             your Father and I having debated and considered well  
             upon the Case, we find it no ways profitable for  
          
          
             either.  
          
          
             Merc. Where is the disadvantage or hinderance?  
             Aged. Your Wit.  
          
          
              O  Merc.   
          
          
          
             50 The B R I D A L S. Act III.  
             Merc. Is Wit a Crime?  
          
          
             Aged. It ought to be made Criminal; for it is not  
             only unprofitable, but ruinous ; not any person thrives  
             that has it; and it makes those that are rich, poor ; and  
             those that are poor, uncapable to be rich.  
          
          
             Merc. They that have Wit, need no other wealth,  
             Sir.  
          
          
             Enter Longlife.  
          
          
             Aged. Mr. Longlife, I find now your words true,  
             That Wit regards not Wealth;for your Son says, That  
             Wit is Wealth enough of it self.  
          
          
             Longs. Yes, yes, Mr. Aged; but he will find, Wit  
             cannot buy Land, unless he joins Knavery to it.  
          
          
             Merc. True Wit is always just,and honest, it knows  
             no double dealing ; and honour is the ground on which  
             it builds a Fame.  
          
          
             Longl. But if you have no other ground, nor other  
             building, but Honour and Fame , you may beg for  
             your livelihood, or starve for want of bread  
          
          
             Merc. I had rather die for want of bread, then live  
             without honourable Fame ; and Fortune's goods are  
             poor to those that Nature gives.  
          
          
             Longl. O Mr. Aged, I am unhappy, undone ; for I  
             perceive my Posterity will be all Beggars: And there-  
             fore, if you will not change your Principles soon, I  
             will disinherit you.  
          
          
             Merc. You cannot, Sir ; for though you may give  
             away your Land, you cannot give away my Wit (if  
             I have any.)  Longl.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S 51  
          
          
             Longs. If I cannot, I will marry you to a Fool; so  
             that though you be poor, your Children may be rich.  
          
          
             Merc. If you please, Sir, and Mr. Aged consent, I  
             desire I may Marry this Lady.  
          
          
             Longl. No, no, Son she hath.Wit, I know by her  
             silence, otherwise her tongue would have run a race  
             in this time.  
          
          
             Fancy. I can speak Sir, but I doubt I have not Wit  
             to speak well.  
          
          
             Longl. Nay, if you talk of Wit, you are not for  
             my Son.  
          
          
             Fancy. Your Son hath so much Wit, that what  
             Woman soever he Marries, cannot continue a Fool  
             long, for she will get Wit from him, and yet he Will  
             have no less, for Nature still supplies his store.  
          
          
             Longl. But my Grand-Children may be Fools, iif  
             my Son's Wife be none of Natures witty Daughters.  
          
          
             Fancy. His Children cannot be Fools; for Wit  
             begets Wit, although a Fool should be the breeder.  
          
          
             Longl. Good Mr. Aged, lock up your Daughter,  
             until I have sent my Son to Travel ; for otherwise we  
             shall ruin on Posterities. Exeunt.  
          
          
              ACT   
          
          
          
             52 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
          
          
             A C T IV. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Amorous, Lady Vertue, and Madam  
             Mediator.  
          
          
             Lady Amorous.  
              M Adam, what makes you so fine to day? and not  
             only your person is finer, but your house is  
          
          
             finer trim'd and trickt,then usually it was; have you a  
             Servant to visit you to day ?  
          
          
             L. Vertue. No, but I have a Master that is to come  
             out of the Country to day.  
          
          
             L.Amor. Who is your Master?  
          
          
             L.Vertue. My Husband, who comes home to day.  
          
          
             L. Amor. Do you make your self and your house so  
             fine only for your Husband?  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Only for my Husband, say you! Why,  
             he is the only Man that I desire to appear fine to;  
             and the only person I desire to please and delight.  
             M. Mediat. But Husbands take no notice of the  
             bravery of their Wives.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. Howsoever, it is the part of every good  
             wife to express, on all occafions,their Love and Respect  
             to their Husbands; in their absence to mourn, at their  
             return to rejoice , and in their Company to be best  
             pleased.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Love, Respect and Duty , are only ex-  
             pressible in Humors, Words and Service, and not in  
             Habit.  L. Vertue.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The B R I D A L S. 53  
          
          
             L. Vertue. But Joy is exprest in habit, as much as  
             mourning ; witness Triumphs and Triumphant Shews;  
             and Triumphs of Joy, and Funerals, are not alike.  
          
          
             M.Mediat. All Noble Persons are buried in Tri-  
             umphs.  
          
          
             L. Vertue, Indeed they are buried With Ceremony,  
             but it is such Ceremony as expresses Dolor, not Joy;  
             for they are followed with black Mourners, and weep-  
             ing eyes : But however, I endeavour to appear to my  
             Husband, at his returning home, like a gay and joyful  
             Bride, and not as a sad mourning Widow.  
          
          
             L. Amor. Let me not live, Lady Vertue, if you be  
             not the most simple Woman alive.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. In What?  
          
          
             L.Amor. First, That you can take pleasure in the  
             dull Company of a Husband; next,That you not  
             delight your self with the Gallants of the Times; and  
             thirdly, That you do not only spoile your own Husband,  
             but all other Womens Husbands, with your example;  
             for which folly, you ought be condemned all our  
             Sex.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. If they condemn me for my Vertue, I  
             will despise them for their Vices.  
          
          
             L. Amor. But Vice is a Vertue in this age; ask  
             Madam Mediator else.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. VVhat say you, Madam Mediator?  
          
          
             M.Mediat. I say, that Vice was never so confident  
          
          
             as it is now, nor never so glorified as it is now, nor  
              P  never   
          
          
          
             54 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
          
          
             never so beloved as it is now, nor never so practised as  
          
          
             it is now.  
          
          
             L. Amor. Well, since Vice is so beloved, and Ver-  
             tue despised, I will go to a merry Meeting. Come,  
             Madam Mediator, you'l make one , although Lady  
          
          
             Vertue will not. Exeunt.  
             S C E N E II.  
             Enter Monfieur Facil, and Mimick.  
             Mimick.  
          
          
              M onsieur Facil, I have tired my Legs, and worn  
             out the Soles of my Snooes to find you out,to  
          
          
             give you a Letter from the Lady Amorous.  
             Facil. I am sorry you have taken such pains.  
             Mimick. You may requite my pains when you  
             please; but here is the Letter.  
             He receives the Letter.  
             Facil. Faithful Mimick! happy Facil! divine Lady!  
             delicious Letter!  
             He kisses the Letter.  
             Mimick. VVhat delicious pleasure do you receive  
             in that Kiss, Monsieur Facil?  
          
          
             F acil. As much pleasure as Joy can give me.  
             He opens the Letter  
          
          
             VVhat is this,a plain sheet of Paper! you Rogue, do  
          
          
             you abuse and cozen me?  
          
          
              Mimick.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 55  
          
          
             Mimick. Did not you give me Ten pound to re-  
             ward my Knavery ? for which I should be ungrateful,  
             should I not be a Knave to you; but yet you have  
             no reason to be angry for this unletter'd Paper, which  
             is the royall'st Kindness, and most generous Present,the  
             Lady could send you ; for she has sent you blank to  
             write down your own desires, demands, or condition  
             of agreement, love and friendship.  
          
          
             Facil. If it be so, I ask you Pardon, and will requite  
             your fidelity with Gold.  
          
          
             Mimick. I'le take your requital.  
          
          
             Facil. Pray go with me to my Lodgings, and there  
             I'le write in this white Paper, that came from the whi-  
             ter hands of my Mistress, my love and affections, and  
             you shall guide it unto her.  
          
          
             Mimick. You must ballace the Letter with Gold,  
             or otherwise it will be drown'd in the returning  
             Voyage.  
          
          
             Facil. I will Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E III.  
             Enter Lady Amorous, and two or three other Ladies.  
          
          
             First Lady.  
              L Ady Amorous, Marriage has made you a boon  
          
          
             Companion.  
             L. Amor. I was s Novice before I married ; but now  
          
          
              I find   
          
          
          
             50 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
          
          
             I find that there is no pleasure, like Liberty, Mirth and  
             good Company.  
          
          
             1 Lady. You say true, Lady, for a Stoical life is  
             the worst life in the VVorld.  
          
          
             2 Lady. But the Lady Vertue, and Sir W. Sage live  
             the life of Stoicks.  
          
          
             L.Amor. The more Fools they ; but my Husband  
             and I, live the life of Libertines ; for he takes his pleasure,  
             and I take mine : Have you sent for Mr. Courtly?  
          
          
             2 Lady. Yes, there are at least half a score Messen-  
             gers sent one after another to invite him hither.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Courtly.  
          
          
             L. Amor. O Sir! you're welcome, we were even now  
             a wishing for you to go abroad with uis.  
          
          
             Court. I account my self happy, Ladies, that I am  
             come according to your wishes, as also to do you  
             service.  
          
          
             1 Lady. We did send a dozen Messengers for you.  
          
          
             Courtly. I did happily meet them, Madam.  
          
          
             1 Lady. But Whether shall we go?  
          
          
             Courtly. Where you please, Lady; for I am ready  
             at your service.  
          
          
             2 Lady. Let us goto the Great Park.  
          
          
             L. Amor. No, let us go to the Fruit-Garden.  
          
          
             2 Lady. No faith, upon better Consideration, let us  
             stay and play at Cards.  
          
          
             L. Amor. That is dull; rather let us fend for Fidlers,  
             and Dance.  
          
          
              1 Lady.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 57  
          
          
             1 Lady. We have not Men enough to dance, and  
             Mr. Courtly cannot dance with us all.  
             Courtly. I'le do my endeavour, Ladies.  
             2 Lady. No, let us hire a Barge, and row upon the  
             Water.  
             L.Amor. No, let-us go and Sup at the Tavern at  
             the Bridg-foot; what say you, Mr. Courtly , will you  
          
          
             entertain us?  
          
          
             Courtly. Yes, Lady, as well as I can.  
             1 Lady. Let us go.  
             2 Lady. No, let us first draw lots, and let Fortune  
             decide the place of our Recreations.  
             L. Amor. Content; but which lot shall carry it?  
             1 Lady. The long lot.  
             2Lady. The short lot.  
             1 Lady. I say the long lot.  
             L. Amor. Let the most Voices carry it.  
             Courtly. Ladies, if I might perswade you, it should  
             be at the Tavern at. they Bridg-foot , and there you  
             shall have the best Meat, Wine and Musick, that place  
             affords.  
             All. Content, content.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
              Q  SCENE   
          
          
          
             58 The B R I D A L S. Act lV.  
          
          
             S C E N E IV.  
             Enter Monsteur Facil and Monsteur Adviser.  
          
          
             Monfieur Advistr.  
              F Acil, how do you prosper in Loves Adventures?  
             Facil. More happily then I could imagine, for  
             she receives my Letters, and returns me Answers.  
          
          
             Adviser. Then you shall not need to despair, since  
             you have such encouragement.  
          
          
             Facil. No faith, for now I fear she will be kinder  
             then I would have her ; for she has consented to a private  
             meeting.  
             Enter Take-pleasure as in bash.  
             Adviser. Whether away in such hast, Tom?  
             Take-pleas. Faith, Courtly has sent his Footman to me  
             in such hast, as poor fellow is almost melted with  
             the heat he has with running, to bring me a note from  
             his Master, who writes to me, that of all love and  
             friendship I should speedily come to him, and to bring  
             half a dozen other Gentlemen with me to the Tavern,  
             to help him to entertain a Company of Ladies, other-  
          
          
             wise he shall die in their service ; wherefore, prithee  
          
          
             Adviser, and Facil, go with me thither.  
             Facil. Faith, we cannot, for we have other business.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. The same answer I have had from a dozen  
          
          
             other Gentlemen, and cannot perswade any one to go;  
          
          
             wherefore, I fear my friend Courtly will be over-power'd  
          
          
             by those many Ladies.  Adviser.   
          
          
             Scen. IV. The B R I D A L S 59  
             Adviser. Why Would Courtly engage himself to so  
          
          
             many Women?  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Alas, he could not help it; for they sent  
             so many Messengers to desire him to come to them, as  
             he was almost smother'd in the croud, so that he was  
             forced as it were, to go out in his own defence; but  
             he finds that the Company of Ladies is worse then the  
             number of Meffengers, for he hath leaped out of the  
             Frying-pan into the fire.  
          
          
             Adviser. I confess Men can hardly avoid the Females,  
             and are more tormented with them then Beggars are  
             with Lice, or a Horse with Files ; for since the Wars,  
             numbers of Women do swarm about one Man , as  
             Bees about a honey-pot.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. I confess it, and I fear my Friend Courtly  
             will be devoured ; wherefore,for Charity,go with me,  
             and help him in distress, and I'le engage that he and I  
             will do the like for either, or both of you.  
          
          
             Adviser. Upon that condition we are content; then  
             let us go with all speed. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Mercury Poet to the Lady Fancy, whom  
          
          
             He finds Weeping.  
          
          
             Merc. Sweet Mistress! let not our Parents folly  
             Be a cause to make us Melancholy:  
              For   
          
          
          
             60 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
          
          
             For Natures, Fates, and mighty gods above  
          
          
             Did make, Decree, and cause our Souls to love;  
          
          
             Then do not mourn, or cloud your Eyes With Tears,  
             But banish from your Mind all Griefs and Fears;  
             For still our Loving Souls will constant be,  
             Cœlestial powers have joyn'd in that Decree.  
             L.Fancy. But at full Moon, the winds blow high,  
             And in the wain they silent lie.  
          
          
             So doth a Lover's full griev'd Mind  
          
          
             Cause storms of Passions, like as Wind,  
          
          
             Beating the Thoughts, like Clouds about,  
          
          
             Which being prest, Tears streameth out.  
             Merc. But when that Grief is in the wain  
          
          
             The Mind is smooth, and calm again ;  
             Thoughts are serene, Joy shineth clear;  
             The Eyes are fair, no Tears appear :  
             But if that you with me consent,  
          
          
             Our Parents follies we'l prevent  
             With holy Ceremony, bind so sure  
          
          
             In Sacred Marriage, shall for life endure.  
             L. Fancy. I do consent to be your Wife.  
             For without you, I have no Life. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
             Scen. V. The B R I D A L S. 61  
          
          
             S C E N E V.  
             Enter Sir William Sage,Lady Vertue, andMimick.  
          
          
             Sir William Sage.  
          
          
              VV hat are you studying your Play?  
             Mimick. Yes faith, I am getting some  
             speeches by heart.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. Let us hear some of them.  
          
          
             Mimic. I cannot speak like a Woman in Breeches  
             and Doublet, unless have a Petticoat.  
          
          
             Enter the Cook-maid.  
          
          
             Maid. Madams come to know what shall be drest  
             for Supper?  
          
          
             Mimick. My Lady will fast and pray to night ;where-  
             fore, lend me one of thy Petticoats.  
          
          
             Maid. What will you do with it?  
          
          
             Mimick. I'le not eat thy Petticoat, though it would  
             fry in its own grease, but I would use it another way.  
          
          
             Maid. What other way?  
          
          
             Mimick. Why, I will wear thy Petticoat over my  
             Breeches.  
          
          
             Maid. No, by my Faith, but you shall not; for  
             then my Petticoat and your Breeches may commit  
             Fornication.  
          
          
             Mimick. It were better our Clothes should commit  
             Fornication, then our Persons; but in my Conscience  
          
          
             our Clothes will be honest; but it is probable,. that the  
              R  Fleas   
          
          
          
             62 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
          
          
             Fleas in your Petticoat, and the Fleas in my Breeches  
             may commit Fornication ; and so our Clothes,or rather  
             ourselves will be guilty of another such like Vertue,  
             as Fornication; which is,I shall be a Pimp, and you a  
             Bawd for the Adulterous Fleas; but howsoever I must  
             borrow thy Petticoat.  
             Maid. Would you have me lend you my Petticoat,  
             and stand my self naked?  
          
          
             Mimick. If you should, it would seem a deed of  
             Charity , to give thy Petticoat from off thee, to those  
             that want it ; besides, you will appear like the Picture of  
             Eve in her state of innocence; and when I have done  
             acting my part of seeming a Woman, I will be like  
             Adam; and so we shall be both like our first Parents.  
          
          
             Maid. I'le see you hang'd in an Apple-tree, before  
             I lend you my Petticoat.  
          
          
             Mimick. Then I shall not. needit, unless it be for  
             a shroud to lap me in ; but rather then you will see me  
             hang'd, you will cut the cord or halter, although you  
             were sure to damn your Soul for the deed ; but if thou  
             wilt send me thy Petticoat, I will promise hereafter to  
             be thy Champion Knight, armed With thy Kitchin-  
             Vessels; thy Spit shall be long Sword or Tuck, and  
             thy Dripping-pan my Target, thy Porridg-pot my  
             Headpiece, one of thy Pie-plates shall serve for a breast-  
          
          
             plate, and a Buff-coat made of the smuddy skins of  
          
          
             Gammons of Bacon.  
             Maid. Upon that condition, to see you so armed, I  
              will   
          
          
             Scen.V. The B R I D A L S. 63  
             will lend you my upper-Petticoat, if my Master and  
             Lady will give me leave.  
          
          
             Mimick. Thou hast their leave; for I must act my  
             part for them to see me; and I had rather wear thy  
             upper-Coat, then thy under-Petticoat.  
          
          
             She pulls off her Petticoat.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Joan, help him to put it on.  
          
          
             Mimick. No, I will put it on my left, for she will  
             put it over my head, and I will put it under my feet,  
             for I had rather my feet should go thorough her Petticoat,  
             then my nose should be in her tale, which will be, if I  
          
          
             put her Petticoat over my head.  
          
          
             She snatches her Petticoat away.  
          
          
             Maid. You jeering Fool, you shall not have my  
             Petticoat to play the Fool with.  
          
          
             Mimick. You Slut, take your Coat again, for the  
             smell makes me sick, and suffocates my breath.  
          
          
             Maid. You are a lying fellow, for laying my Petti-  
             coat stinks.  
          
          
             Mimick. Prithee Joan, be pacified; for l confess, my  
             smell is a foolish, nice, sickly smell; but for thy com-  
             fort,many right Honourable, and right noble Persons love  
             the haut-goust of such Petticoats; but the perfume of  
             thy Petticoat, has spoiled the part of my Play; for it  
             hath put me quite out of the Amorous Speeches, I  
             should have rehears'd;  
          
          
             Sir.W. Sage. But it is not so proper for a Woman  
             to speak Amorous Speeches, as for a Man ; wherefore,  
          
          
              speak   
          
          
          
             64 The B R I D A L S. Act IV.  
             speak some Amorous Speeches to Joan, as a Man in  
             your own Garments.  
          
          
             Mimick. But my Speech was to be spoken in the  
             absence of my Lover ; complaining to the gods, and  
             imploring their favours to assist me to the fight of  
             my Love.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. That would have been rather as a Prayer,  
             then an Amorous Speech.  
          
          
             Mimick. No, no, I would have order'd my Speech  
             so as it should have been Amorous.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. Then I perceive we shall hear none of  
          
          
             your Play at this time.  
          
          
             Mimick. I have parts to act as a Man; which is to  
          
          
             address myself in a Courtly manner to some fine, fair,  
             sweet, young Lady.  
             L.Vertue. Imagine Joan such a Lady.  
          
          
             Mimick. My Imagination is not so powerful, as to  
             Metamorphose Joan in my Thoughts to such a Lady;  
             besides, Joan cannot answer a Man as she should.  
          
          
             Maid. You lie, you Rogue, for I have answer'd  
             better men then thou art, or ever wilt be.  
          
          
             Mimick. But can you talk Court-talks?  
          
          
             Maid. I know not what Court-talk is, but I can talk.  
          
          
             Mimick. Stand forth here, and I will court thee as a  
             Gallant doth his Mistress: Lady, your Beauty shines.  
          
          
             Maid. That is, because I wash'd it with some of the  
             Beef- broth, and wiped it with a grease clout, I use to  
          
          
             wipe the dishes ; otherwise,the great hot shining fire i'th'  
              Kitchin   
          
          
             Scen.V. The B R I D A L S. 65  
          
          
             Kitchen would burn and parch it so dry, as it would  
          
          
             be scurvy, or scabby.  
             Mimick. Setting aside your basted, rosted face, I must  
          
          
             tell you, it is not the Courtly manner to interrupt a  
          
          
             Man in his speech ; you must be silent until the end of  
          
          
             the Speech, and then speak; but you spoke when I had  
          
          
             not said above four words : hold your peace, and I'le  
          
          
             begin again.  
             Lady, your Beauty shineth like a blazing-Star,where-  
          
          
             on Men gaze , and in their Minds do wonder at the  
          
          
             sight; but the effects are not alike ; your Beauty strikes  
             them not with fear, but Love; your frowns and smiles  
             are Destiny and Fate, either to kill or cure.  
          
          
             Maid. What Language is this, French or Dutch, or  
             Welch, or Irish, or Scotch !  
          
          
             Mimick. No, it is Greek and Hebrew.  
          
          
             Maid. Speak to me so, as I may understand you;  
             otherwise, I cannot answer you.  
          
          
             Mimick. Joan, thy face shines like a Sea-coal fire.  
             Maid. Why, doth it look red?  
             Mimick. Faith, thy Nose appears like a burning  
          
          
             coal, rak'd over with black ashes , but all thy face else  
             appears like the outside of a roasted Pig.  
          
          
             Maid. You are a roasted Ass, for saying my face ap-  
             pears like the outside of a roasted Pig ; my face is a face  
             of God's own making, and not a Pig's face.  
          
          
             Mimick. No,I know your face is a Sow's face; but  
          
          
             I say the colour of your face is like the Coat of a  
             roasted Pig.  S  Maid.   
          
          
          
             66 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Maid. My face is as good a face as your own, with-  
             out any dispraise to the party.  
          
          
             Mimick. Which party ? the Fools party, or the  
             Sluts party ?  
          
          
             Maid. Well, for saying my face is like a Pig's Coat,  
             i'faith when I roast a Pig again; you shall not have any  
             part of it; and let me give you warning , you come  
             not into the Kitchin; for if you do,I will sling a Ladle  
             full of Drippings upon your Fools Coat.  
          
          
             Exit Maid.  
          
          
             Mimick. O wo is me! I shall lose many a hot bit ;  
             but Master and Lady,this is your fault to make Joan and  
             I fall out.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. We did not make you fall out.  
          
          
             Mimick. You commanded me to Court Joan, and  
             she doth not understand Courtships in Words; for Joan  
             is used to be kiss'd, and not wooed ; but I will go and  
             promise Joan a kiss, although I never pay it her; for  
             the more hungry she is,the better she'l feed me. Exeunt.  
          
          
             ACT V. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Facil, Monsieur Adviser, andMonsieur  
             Take-pleasure.  
          
          
             Monfieur Take-pleqstrre.  
          
          
              F Acil, I am come to fetch thee to the Horn-Tavern,  
             for there be a number of Good-fellows that want  
             thy Company.  Facil.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The B R I D A L S. 67  
          
          
             Facil. Stay, stay; I must go and make a Cuckold  
             first.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Thou hast made a Hundred in thy time.  
          
          
             Facil. But I must go and make one to day; for I  
             am going to meet a young beautiful Wife in private.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Put off thy Meeting until another time.  
          
          
             Facil. That I cannot, I am so engaged ; besides, she  
             is a Lady of Honour.  
          
          
             Adviser. Of Title you mean ; for Ladies of Honour,  
             or Honourable Ladies, do not use to have private  
             Meetings with such wild deboist Men as thou art; and  
             if she be a Wise, as you fay she is, it will be no great  
             honour for her Husband.  
          
          
             Facil. You speak as if you were a Married Man, and  
             were sensible of a Husbands disgrace.  
          
          
             Adviser. The truth is, I find I have a Commiserati-  
             on and Compassion for Married Men.  
          
          
             Facil. But not when you are to lie with any of their  
             Wives.  
          
          
             Adviser. I seldom make love to Married Wives; for  
             they are not worth the trouble and danger which a  
             Man must pass through before they can be enjoyed;  
             besides, a Man loses a great deal of time in Wooing  
             them, not but that they are as yielding, nay, more yiel-  
             ding then Maids ; but they are more fearful to venture,  
             lest their Husbands should know it.  
          
          
             Facil. Faith,Maids are more troublesome and char-  
             gable then Wives; for they are apt to claim Marriage,  
          
          
              or   
          
          
          
             68 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             or to sue for maintenance at least; besides, their lying  
             in, and Christening, breeding and bringing up of their  
             Children, is an intollerable Charge; which charge is  
             fav'd with Married Wives; and for their Husbands,  
             they are contented to wink, not willing to see their dis-  
             graces, at least not to divulge them.  
             Adviser. Not all; for some will look with more  
             eyes then their own, setting spies to watch them.  
             Facil. Those are old-fashioned Husbands, and not  
             Mode-Husbands.  
             Adviser. Indeed, I observe,that Mode-Husbands do  
             not love their Wives, unless other Men Court them;  
          
          
             and if your Mistress's Husband is such a one, you shall  
          
          
             not need to meet in private.  
          
          
             Facil. I think my Mistress's Husband is not so much  
             of the French fashion , although my Mistress is Fren-  
             chified.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. What,has she the French Pox ?  
          
          
             Facil. I hope not; for Ladies of her Quality have  
             not that foul infectious Disease ; but I mean my Mi-  
             stress is in the French Fashion,not in the French Disease:  
             But farewell, for I must be gone ; otherwise, I shall flip  
             my time.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Prithee go along with me.  
          
          
             Facil. I'le leave you, my friend here; for my felt l  
          
          
             must go,otherwise I should prove my self a Fool, to lose  
             the time have spin in Wooing, the Money I have  
             given in bribing, the Sleeps I have mist with watching,  
              the   
          
          
             Scene. lI. The B R I D A L S. 69  
          
          
             the Protestations and Vows I have made in swearing,  
             and my word that is past in promising, if I should not  
             meet her and enjoy her; but when I am parted from  
             her, I will come to you.  
          
          
             Take-pleas. Well, I am content to spare thee so long;  
             for I would not have thee a loser, although my faith  
             tells me, you will not gain much : But remember the  
             meeting at the Horn-Tavern.  
          
          
             Facil. I shall not forget that sign of any sign ;  
          
          
             wherefore, doubt not of my Company. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E II.  
             Enter Lady Vertue and Mimick.  
          
          
             Lady Vertue.  
              M Imick, to my sight you appear dull , since you  
          
          
             are Married !  
             Mimick. Faith, I do not find my self so lively as 1  
             was before I Married; for a Wife is a clog to a Man's  
          
          
             heels, and a cloud in a Man's mind; but your Lady-  
          
          
             ship seems more lively since you were Married, then you  
             did before.  
          
          
             Lady. The reason is, That a good Husband is a light  
             to a Woman's life, a friend to a Woman's Vertue,and  
             a Crown to a Woman's honour.  
          
          
             Mimick. And an ill Wife is a Horn to a Man's  
             head, a Plague to a Man's life, and a death to a  
          
          
             Mauls wit. s Lach:.  
          
          
          
             70 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Lady. Indeed your Mimick-Wit seems dead since  
             you Married; but yet my Maid Nan, whom you  
             Married,is a good Wife.  
          
          
             Mimick. Yes, when she is in a good humor.  
          
          
             Lady. Let me advise you to return to your Mimick-  
             humour, or I will tell your Wife, that you repent  
             your Marriage.  
          
          
             Mimick. She may perceive that by my cold kindness;  
             howsoever, I'le live like a Batchelor , although I am a  
             Married Man.  
          
          
             Lady. How Can you do so?  
          
          
             Mimick. Why, I will live Chast.  
          
          
             Lady. That will be well for Nan.  
          
          
             Esher Sir William Sage.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. Wife, I have invited some Strangers to  
          
          
             dine with me to morrow ; wherefore, I would have you  
             dress your self fine to entertain them.  
          
          
             Lady. If you like me in plain Garments as well as  
             in rich, I care not how Strangers like me.  
          
          
             SirW. Sages I would have my Wife appear so hand-  
             some to Strangers,as they may approve of my Choice.  
          
          
             Lady. Some Men would be afraid if their Wives  
             should be seen by Strangers , least they might like so  
             well their Choice, as to chuse them for their Mistresses.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. But my Wife's Vertue makes me fear-  
             less of Strangers.  
          
          
             Lady. But Vertue is not proved, until it be tryed.  
          
          
             SirW. Sage. True love is never inconstant.  
          
          
              Lady.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 71  
          
          
             Lady. But true love is not known until it be tryed.  
          
          
             SirW. Sage. I fear not a trial.  
          
          
             Lady. But a trial of Chastity is scandalous ; for  
             Overberry in his Characters says , That he comes not  
             near, that comes to be denied.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. Then I will entertain the Strangers, and  
             keep you in your Chamber.  
          
          
             Lady. I shall so.  
          
          
             Mimick. Madam, my Master having Strangers to  
             morrow, pray let me add one dish to the Feast.  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. VVhat Dish is that, a dress'd Lady?  
          
          
             Mimick. No ; for my skill in Physick doth plain-  
             ly prove, that Ladies are unwholsome meat, they will  
             give a Man a Surfeit; besides, they are not tastable, un-  
             less they be very tender and young; also, they are very  
             chargeable in dressing, they require so many Ingrediences  
             and garnishing to let them off, and so much sauce to  
             make them relish well , as would undo a poor Man;  
             besides, much art is required in the Dressing: So all  
             considered, they are not worth the charge, labour and  
             time, being but a faint, weak and sickly meat at the  
             best, but I have thought of other meat , which will be  
             testable meat to a great Monarch.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. VVhat meat is that?  
          
          
             Mimick. An Hodge-podge.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. It seems it is for a Dutch Monarch; but  
             let us know how you will make it?  
          
          
             Mimick. First, I will take VVidows dissembling  
          
          
              tears,   
          
          
          
             72 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Tears, Maids dissembling Modesty, Wives dissem-  
             bling Chastity, Curtisans dissembling Virginity, Puri-  
             tanical Sisters dissembling Piety, Autumnal Ladies dis-  
             sembling Beauty; and mixing all these Ingrediences to-  
             gether, I will put them into a Mystical pot, and let it  
             on a heatless fiery Meteor a stewing , and after it has  
             stew'd some time, I'le put these Ingrediences to them,  
             The Pride of Favourites, the Vanity of Courtiers, the  
             Jugling of Statesmen, the Fears of Cowards, the mis-  
             chiefs of Tumults , the Extortion of Magistrates, the  
             Covetousness of Usurers, the Retards of Judges, the  
             Quirks of Lawyers, the Opiniateness of Scholars the  
             Jealousie of Lovers, the Deceit of Tradesmen, the Brags  
             of Soldiers, the Oaths of Gamesters, the Prodigality of  
             young Heirs, the Diseases of Drunkards, the Surfeits  
             of Gluttons, and the dishonour of Cuckolds ; Like-  
             wise,I will put in a Fool's Brain, a Liers Tongue, a  
             Traiterous Heart, and a Thieves Hand; VVith which  
             I'le stir all together , and after they have been well  
             stew'd and stir'd together ' I'le take this Hodg-podg  
             and put it into a large dish of Infamy, and garnish it  
             with the dotgae of Age, the follies of Youths the su-  
             perstition of Idolaters, and the expectation of Chymists,  
             and then serve it up to Pluto's Table.  
             Lady. For once I will try my Huswifry to Cook a  
             dish of meat, Which shall be a Bisk : First, I will take  
             the Truth of Religion, the Piety of Saints,the Chastity  
             of Nuns, the Purity of Virginity, the Constancy of  
          
          
              true   
          
          
             Scen. II. The B R I D A L S. 73  
          
          
             true Love, the Unity of Friendship, the Innocency of  
             Infants, the Wit of Poets, the Eloquence of Orators,  
             the Learning of Scholars , the Valour of Soldiers, the  
             Knowledg of Travellers, and Time's Experience; And  
             put all these into a pot of Renown , and let it on a  
             Cœlestial fire a stewing; after it has stew'd some time,  
             I'lc put in these Ingredients, Wholsome Temperance,  
             strengthning Fortitude, comfortable Justice, and favo-  
             ry Prudence ; also, I'le add the bowels of Compassion,  
             the Heart of Honesty, the Brain of Wisdom , the  
             Tongue of Truth, and the Hand of Generosity; and  
             stir them well together , then I'le take them off, and  
          
          
             put them into a dish of Happiness, and garnish it with  
             the Plenty of Prosperity,the Ease of Rest, the Delight  
             of Beauty, and the Tranquillity of Peace, and to serve  
             it up to Jove's Table. Thus I am a Cook-maid for  
             the gods; but you are a Cook-man for the Devil, and  
          
          
             all the meat you Cook, is burnt.  
          
          
             Mimick. I confess, Hell's fire is great and scorching,  
          
          
             and Hell's Kitchin is very hot; but howsoever, my  
          
          
             Master the Devil loves his meat thoroughly roasted, and  
             tenderly stew'd; but your Master Jove loves all his  
             meat cold and raw; for there is not any fire in Heaven,  
             and that is the reason you chuse to be a Servant to the  
          
          
             gods ; because you would not burn your face, left it  
          
          
             should spoile your Complexion; for Ladies are more  
          
          
             careful of their Faces then their Souls; besides, the  
          
          
             cool and temperate air, and the cold diet of the gods,  
              V  which   
          
          
          
             74 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Which breeds flegm, makes them patient ; whereas,the  
             Devil is dwelling in a Torrid Region, and eating dry  
             roasted meat, which breeds Choller, makes him furious;  
             in so much, as he tortures his Servants with grievous  
             pains.  
          
          
             Lady. Why do you serve him then?  
          
          
             Mimick. Because, he gives great wages ; I serve him  
             for necessity, but some serve him for worldly honour,  
             and some for worldly wealth , and some for worldly  
             power, and some for one thing, and some for another ;  
             for none serves him for love, neither do the Servants of  
             the gods serve them for love but for some: reward.  
          
          
             SirW.Sage. Let me perswade you to change your  
             Service.  
          
          
             Mimick. So I will, when I am old, and can serve the  
             Devil no longer, then I will leave his Service, and serve  
             the gods.  
          
          
             Sir W.Sage. But the gods will not then accept of  
             your Service.  
          
          
             Mimick. But they will ; for the gods refuse not any  
             that offer their service; The truth is, the gods cannot  
             get Servants enough to serve them , so as they are for-  
             ced to take any that will but serve them ; for the gods  
             have but the Devils leavings and refusals, as those that  
             are so old as to be past sin; or to sickly, as they cannot  
             act sin; or thole that are so young, as not to know sin;  
             for most of the gods Servants are aged and weak per-  
             sons, or young Children.  
          
          
              Sir   
          
          
             Scen. III The B R I D A L S. 75  
          
          
             Sir W. Sage. I perceive you will wear out sin, before  
             you serve the gods.  
          
          
             Mimick. No, sin shall wear out me, before I serve  
             them.  
          
          
             Lady. You are a sinful Rogue.  
          
          
             Mimic. All Mankind is so, more or less, even  
             your Ladyship; the gods bless you, and have mercy  
             upon you.  
          
          
             Lady. Well, to punish you for your Sins, you shall  
             eat no other meat but what your Poetical Fancy  
             dresses.  
             Mimick. I shall be starved then. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE III.  
             Enter Monsieur Courtly, and Monsieur Adviser.  
          
          
             Monsieur Adviser.  
              C Ourtly ! 'tis strange to see you in this humour, as  
             dying for the love of one Woman, when as I  
             thought you had taken a surfeit of all Womenking !  
             Courtly. 'Tis true' I have Courted some Women,  
             and many Women have Courted me; but I did never  
             truly love any Woman but this Woman, which I  
             cannot enjoy.  
             Adviser. Have you no hopes to linger your life a  
             little time longer?  
             Courtly. Faith, I believe my life will continue, but  
             my hopes are buried in despair.  Adviser.   
          
          
          
             76 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Adviser. If you had but the opportunity to Court  
             this Lady, you are so madly in love with, at any time,  
             I am confident you may gain her good will; for Wo-  
             men are as various in their denials and consenting to  
             their Lovers, as they are in their falhions and garments;  
             for they with love and hate, and hate and love one and  
             the same, many several times; as now love, then hate,  
             now hate, then love; for Ladies affections change like  
             the Seasons, or the Weather, as sometimes hot, and  
             sometimes cold, and sometimes luke-warm.  
          
          
             Courtly. The affections of the Lady I love, are at  
             all times cold, even to numness; for she is insensible to-  
             wards me, and to all Lovers else, for any thing I can  
             perceive.  
          
          
             Advister. Is she such a frozen Lady?  
          
          
             Courtly. Yes faith; for I think she is composed of  
             Ice, or a statue made of Snow..  
          
          
             Adviser. If she be composed of Ice or Snow, dare  
             affure you, she may be melted.  
             Courtly. How?  
          
          
             Adviser. Why, be you in the Torrid Zone of Mode,  
             in Speech, Behaviour and Accoutrements, and let your  
             Garments be so rich, as to shine in Gold and Silver,  
             whose glistering rayes will cast a glorious splendor ; then  
          
          
             address your self in Poetical flames, and being a hot  
          
          
             Lover, you will thaw her into your arms, and melt her  
          
          
             unto your defire: Thus a Western Lover, and a Nor-  
          
          
             thern Lady may meet in Conjunction together.  
              Courtly.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The B R I D A L S. 77  
          
          
             Courtly. But cold Chastity has congealed and cry-  
             stallized this Lady, in so much , as the hottest Lover  
             with all his Poetical flames, and splendorous rayes of  
             Youth, Beauty, Title, Wealth or Bravery, has not  
             power to change or alter her worth and honour; for  
             like a durable Diamond she is, and will remain.  
          
          
             Adviser. Who is the owner of this rich Jewel?  
          
          
             Court. Sir W. Sage, who is a wise, valiant man, and will  
             not part from her, nor suffer any Man to take her from  
             him; for he wears her in his heart , and she is the de-  
             light of his Life, and the Crown of his Honour , in  
             which he takes more Glory, pride and pleasure, then  
             to be Crowned Emperor of the whole VVorld.  
          
          
             Adviser. He hath reason; for a Man may sooner  
             conquer the World, then find such another Chast  
             VVoman as she is.  
          
          
             Courtly. VVell, since I cannot obtain my desire, I  
          
          
             will travel.  
             Adviser. That is the best for you to do, for so you  
             may tire out Love.  
             Courtly. Or Love tire out me.  
             Adviser. Faith, you are tir'd out of Courtship, and  
             if you can tire out Love, you will do well ; but be-  
             fore you go to Travel, you must go to a dancing-  
          
          
             meeting of Ladies and Gentlemen. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Longlife, and Aged.  
          
          
             Aged. Mr. Longlife, I am come to tell you, That  
             your Son Mercury hath stoln away my Daughter,  
              X  Fancy   
          
          
          
             78 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             Fancy, and as I hear, they are gone to Apollo's Church  
             to be Married.  
          
          
             Longl. Mr. Aged, I am sorry for it, and wish he had  
             stoln a Challenge, when he stole your Daughter.  
          
          
             Aged. And I wish my Daughter had Married an  
             Ass, rather then Marry your Son.  
          
          
             Longl. Well, if they be Married; as sure they are, if  
             they have any Children we will endeavour to breed  
             them Fools.  
          
          
             Aged. We will so.  
          
          
             Enter Married Couple : They kneel down.  
          
          
             Merc. We desire your Blessing.  
          
          
             Longl. Well, since you are Married, God bless you;  
             But Son and Daughter in Law, I desire and command  
             yon in the name of a Father, that you will leave Ver-  
             sifying, Rhyming, Similizing, and the like, but study  
             the Politicks, and that will abate your Wit.  
          
          
             Aged. They may study Virgils Georgicks, for that  
             treats of good Husbandry.  
          
          
             Longl. Yes, brother Aged, but it is in Verse, and  
             whatsoever they get in Husbandry, they will lose by the  
             Rhyme.  
          
          
             Aged. By the Mass you say true, Brother Longlife.  
          
          
             Longl. Well Brother, although they have Married  
             against our consent, yet we will celebrate their Marriage  
             with Feasting, Mirth, and Musick.  
          
          
             Merc. Musick Sir, is a part of Poetry, and belongs  
             to the Muses.  
          
          
              Longl.   
          
          
             Scene. III. The B R I D A L S. 79  
          
          
             Longs. Yes, yes, but not such Musick as we will have,  
             two or three Scraping Fidlers, that plays neither tune  
             nor time.  
          
          
             Enter the Lady Fancy as a Bride, and Sir Mercury  
             Poet as Bridegroom ; and all the Ladies and Gen-  
             tlemen that were Guests at the Wedding.  
          
          
             Aged. Brother Longlife, we are not for these active  
             sports, our dancing-days are done.  
          
          
             Longl. You say true, brother Aged; but in our youn-  
             ger years we were as agil as the best of them all.  
          
          
             A young Lady takes out Longlife to dance.  
          
          
             Lady. Sir, although you be old , you may walk a  
             grave measure, as a Paven.  
          
          
             Longl. Say you so, my Girl; and i'faith I will try  
             what my old legs will do; here brother Aged you shall  
             hold my staff whil'st I dance.  
          
          
             Aged. Nay, b'r'lady, your staff brother Longlife Will  
             help to prop up your weakness; and since a young Lady  
             hath chose you to dance with , I will chuse out  
             a Lady to dance with me ; but the Musicians  
             must play flow, or we shall not keep time; wherefore,  
             Musicians let not your Fiddles go faster then our Legs,  
             nor your Tunes to be younger then our years, but an  
          
          
             old Paven.  
              The   
          
          
          
             80 The B R I D A L S. Act V.  
          
          
             The Old Men dance with two Young Ladies, they  
             dance softly, but right, and keep time.  
          
          
             Th Young Men smile.  
          
          
             Aged. You young Men smile, but we could have  
             danced as nimbly as you can now.  
          
          
             Merc. You will teach us a sober pace, Sir.  
          
          
             Longl. No Son, Time must teach you that,to which  
             we will leave you, and my Brother and I will rest our  
             Legs whil'st you tire your Legs: Come brother Aged,  
             let us leave them to their Mirth, Musick, and Youth.  
          
          
             The ACTORS NAMES.  
          
          
             Take-pleasure,  
             Adviser,  
             Mounsier Facil, Bridemen  
             Courtly.  
             Master Longlife.  
             Master Aged.  
             Sir Mercury Poet, and the Lady Fancy his Bride.  
             Sir William Sage, and the Lady Vertue his Bride.  
             Sir John Amorous, and the Lady Coy his Bride.  
          
          
             Madam Mediator. And other Ladies.  
             Mimick, the Fool.  
          
          
             Joan, a Cook-maid.  
          
          
             THE  
          
          
             Convent of Pleasure.  
             A COMEDY.  
          
          
             ACT I. SCENE I.  
             Enter Three Gentlemen.  
             First Gentleman.  
          
          
              T OM, Where have you been, you  
             look so sadly of it?  
          
          
             2 Gent. I have been at the Fune-  
             ral of the Lord Fortunate; who  
             has left his Daughter, the Lady  
             Happy, very rich, having no other  
          
          
             Daughter but her.  
          
          
             1 Gent. If she be so rich, it will make us all Young  
             Men, spend all our Wealth in fine Clothes, Coaches,  
             and Lackies, to set out our Wooing hopes.  
          
          
              A    3 Gent.   
          
          
          
             2 The Convent of Pleasure. Act I.  
          
          
             3 Gent. If all her Wooers be younger Brothers, as  
             most of us Gallants are, we shall undo our selves upon  
             bare hopes, without Probability: But is she handsome,  
             Tom?  
          
          
             2 Gent. Yes, she is extream handsome, young,rich,  
             and virtuous.  
          
          
             1. Gent. Faith, that is too much for one Woman  
             to possess.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Not, if you were to have her.  
          
          
             1 Gent. No, not for me, but in my Opinion too  
             much for any other Man. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter the Lady Happy, and one of her Attendants.  
          
          
             Servant.  
              M Adam, you being young, handsome, rich, and  
             virtuous, I hope you will not cast away those  
             gifts of Nature, Fortune, and Heaven, upon a Person  
             which cannot merit you?  
             L.Happy. Let me tell you, that Riches ought to  
             be bestowed on such as are poor, and want means to  
             maintain themselves; and Youth, on those that are  
             old; Beauty, on those that are ill-favoured; and  
             Virtue, on those that are vicious: So that if I should  
             place my gift rightly, I must Marry one that's poor,  
             old, ill-favoured, and debauch'd.  
          
          
              Serv.   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Convent of Pleasure. 3  
          
          
             Serv. Heaven forbid.  
             L.Happy. Nay, Heaven doth not only allow of it,  
             but commands it; for we are commanded to give to  
             those that want.  
             Enter Madam Mediator to the Lady Happy.  
             Mediat. Surely, Madam, you do but talk, and in-  
             tend not to go where you say.  
             L. Happy. Yes, truly, my Words and Intentions  
             go even together.  
             Mediat. But surely you will not incloyster your  
             self, as you say.  
             L.Happy. Why,what is there in the publick World  
             that should invite me to live in it?  
             Mediat. More then if you should banish your self  
             from it.  
             L. Happy. Put the case I should Marry the best of  
             Men, if any best there be; yet would a Marry'd life  
             have more crosses and sorrows then pleasure, freedom,  
             or happiness: nay Marriage to those that are virtuous is  
             a greater restraint then a Monastery. Or, should I take  
             delight in Admirers? they might gaze on my Beauty,  
             and praise my Wit, and I receive nothing from their  
             eyes, nor lips; for Words vanish as soon as spoken, and  
             Sights are not substantial. Besides, I should lose more  
             of my Reputation by their Visits, then gain by their  
             Praises. Or, should I quit Reputation and turn Cour-  
             tizan, there would be more lost in my Health, then  
             gained by my Lovers, I should find more pain then  
              B  Plea-   
          
          
          
             4 The Convent Pleasure. Act l.  
          
          
             Pleasure; besides, the troubles and frights I should be  
             put to, with the Quarrels and Brouilleries that Jealous  
             Rivals make, would be a torment to me; and 'tis only  
             for the sake of Men, when Women retire not: And  
             since there is so much folly, vanity and falshood in Men,  
             why should Women trouble and vex themselves for  
             their sake; for retiredness bars the life from nothing else  
             but Men.  
          
          
             Mediat. O yes, for those that incloister themselves,  
             bar themselves from all other Worldly Pleasures.  
          
          
             L. Happy. The more Fools they.  
          
          
             Mediat. Will you call those Fools that do it for the  
             gods sake?  
          
          
             L. Happy. No Madam, it is not for the gods sake,  
             but for opinion's sake; for,Can any Rational Creature  
             think or believe, the gods take delight in the Creature's  
             uneasie life? or, Did they command or give leave to  
             Nature to make Senses for no use; or to cross, vex and  
             pain them?for,What profit or pleasure can it be to the  
             gods to have Men or Women wear coarse Linnen or  
             rough Woollen, or to flea their skin with Hair-cloth,  
             or to eat or sawe thorow their flesh with Cords? or,  
             What profit or pleasure can it be to the gods to have  
             Men eat more Fish then Flesh, or to fast? unless the  
             gods did feed on such meat themselves; for then, for  
             fear the gods should want it, it were fit for Men to  
             abstein from it: The like for Garments, for fear the  
             gods should want fine Clothes to adorn themselves, it  
          
          
              were   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Convent Of Pleasure. 5  
          
          
             were fit Men should not wear them: Or, what profit  
             or pleasure can it be to the gods to have Men to lie  
             uneasily on the hard ground,unless the gods and Nature  
             were at variance, strife and wars; as if what is displea-  
             sing unto Nature, Were pleasing to the gods, and to  
             be enemies to her, were to be friends to them.  
          
          
             Mediat. But being done for the gods sake, it makes  
             that which in Nature seems to be bad, in Divinity to  
             be good.  
          
          
             L. Happy. It cannot be good, if it be neither plea-  
          
          
             sure, nor profit to the gods; neither do Men any  
          
          
             thing for the gods but their own sake.  
          
          
             Mediat. But when the Mind is not imployed with  
             Vanities, nor the Senses with Luxury; the Mind is  
             more free, to offer its Adorations, Prayers and Prai-  
             ses to the gods.  
          
          
             L. Happy. I believe, the gods are better pleased with  
             Praises then Fasting; but when the Senses are dull'd  
             with abstinency, the Body weakned with fasting, the  
             Spirits tir'd with watching, the Life made uneasie with  
             pain, the Soul can have but little will to worship:only  
             the Imagination doth frighten it into active zeal, which  
             devotion is rather forced then voluntary; so that their  
             prayers rather flow out of their mouth, then spring  
             from their heart, like rain-water that runs thorow  
             Gutters, or like Water that's forced up a Hill by Ar-  
             tificial Pipes and Cisterns. But those that pray not  
             unto the gods, or praise them more in prosperity then  
          
          
              adver-   
          
          
          
             6 The Convent of Pleasure Act I.  
          
          
             adversity, more in pleasures then pains, more in  
             liberty then restraint, deserve neither the happiness of  
             ease, peace, freedom, plenty and tranquillity in this  
             World, nor the glory and blessedness of the next.  
             And if the gods should take pleasure in nothing but in  
             the torments of their Creatures, and would not pre-  
             fer those prayers that are offer'd with ease and delight,  
             I should believe,the gods were cruel: and, What Crea-  
             ture that had reason or rational understanding, would  
             serve cruel Masters, when they might serve a kind Mi-  
             stress, or would forsake the service of their kind Mi-  
             stress, to serve cruel Masters? Wherefore, if the gods  
             be cruel, I will serve Nature; but the gods are boun-  
             tiful, and give all, that's good, and bid us freely please  
             our selves in that which is best for us : and that is best,  
             what is most temperately used, and longest may be en-  
             joyed, for excess doth wast it self, and all it feeds  
             upon.  
             Mediat. In my opinion your Doctrine, and your  
             Intention do not agree together.  
          
          
             L. Happy. Why?  
          
          
             Mediat. You intend to live incloister'd and retired  
             from the World.  
          
          
             L. Happy. 'Tis true, but not from pleasures; for, I  
             intend to incloister my self from the World, to en-  
             joy pleasure, and not to bury my self from it; but to  
             incloister my self from the incumbred cares and vex-  
          
          
             ations, troubles and perturbance of the World.  
              Mediat.   
          
          
             Scene. II. The Convent of Pleasure. 7  
          
          
             Mediat. But if you incloister your self, How will  
             you enjoy the company of Men, whose conversation  
             is thought the greatest Pleasure?  
          
          
             L. Happy. Men are the only troublers of Women;  
          
          
             for they only cross and oppose their sweet delights, and  
          
          
             peaceable life; they cause their pains, but not their  
             pleasures. Wherefore those Women that are poor,  
             and have not means to buy delights, and maintain  
             pleasures, are only fit for Men; for having not means  
          
          
             to please themselves, they must serve only to please  
          
          
             others; but those Women, where Fortune, Nature,  
             and the gods are joined to make them happy, were mad  
             to live with Men, who make the Female sex their  
             slaves; but I will not be so inslaved, but will live  
             retired from their Company. Wherefore, in order  
             thereto, I will take so many Noble Persons of my  
             own Sex, as my Estate will plentifully maintain, such  
             whose Births are greater then their Fortunes, and are  
             resolv'd to live a single life, and vow Virginity: with  
             these I mean to live incloister'd with all the delights  
             and pleasures that are allowable and lawful; My  
             Cloister shall not be a Cloister of restraint, but a  
             place for freedom, not to vex the Senses but to please  
             them.  
              C  For   
          
          
          
             8 The Convent of Pleasure. Act I.  
          
          
             For every Sense shall pleasure take,  
             And all our Lives than merry make:  
             Our Minds in full delight shall joy,  
             Not vex'd with every idle Toy:  
             Each Season shall our Caterers be,  
             To search the Land, and Fish the Sea;  
             To gather Fruit and reap the Corn,  
             That's brought to us in Plenty's Horn;  
             With which we'l feast and please our tast,  
             But not luxurious make a wast.  
             Wee'l Cloth our selves with softest Silk,  
             And Linnen fine as white as milk.  
             Wee'l please our Sight with Pictures rare;  
             Our Nostrils with perfumed Air.  
             Our Ears with sweet melodious Sound,  
             Whose Substance can be no where found;  
             Our Tast with sweet delicious Meat,  
             And savory Sauces we will eat:  
          
          
             Variety each Sense shall feed,  
             And Change in them new Appetites breed.  
             Thus will in Pleasure's Convent I  
          
          
             Live with delight, and with it die.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              ACT   
          
          
             Scene. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 9  
          
          
             ACT II. SCENE I.  
             Enter Monsieur Take-pleasure, and his Man Dick.  
          
          
             Monsieur Take-pleasure.  
              D ick, Am I fine to day ?  
             Dick. Yes, Sir, as fine as Feathers, Ribbons,  
             Gold, and Silver can make you.  
             Takepl. Dost thou think I shall get the Lady Happy?  
             Dick. Not if it be her fortune to continue in that  
             name.  
             Takepl. Why ?  
             Dick. Because if she Marry your Worship she must  
             change her Name; for the Wife takes the Name of her  
             Husband, and quits her own.  
             Takepl. Faith, Dick, if I had her wealth I should  
             be Happy.  
             Dick. It would be according as your Worship  
             would use it; but, on my conscience, you would be  
             more happy with the Ladie's Wealth, then the Lady  
             would be with your Worship.  
             Takepl. Why should you think so?  
             Dick. Because Women never think themselves  
             happy in Marriage.  
             Takepl. You are mistaken; for Women never  
             think themselves happy until they be Married.  
             Dick. The truth is, Sir, that Women are always  
             unhappy in their thoughts, both before and after  
              Marriage;   
          
          
          
             10 The Convent of Pleasure. Act II.  
          
          
             Marriage; for, before Marriage they think themselves  
             unhappy for want of a Husband; and after they are  
          
          
             Married, they think themselves unhappy for having a  
          
          
             Husband.  
             Takepl. Indeed VVomens thoughts are restless.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Facil, and Monsieur Adviser, to  
          
          
             Monsieur Take-pleasure; all in their Wooing  
             Accoutrements.  
          
          
             Takepl. Gentlemen, I perceive you are all prepared  
          
          
             to Woo.  
          
          
             Facil. Yes faith, we are all prepared to be Wooers.  
             But whom shall we get to present us to the Lady  
             Happy?  
          
          
             Adviser. We must set on bold faces, and present  
          
          
             our selves.  
          
          
             Takepl. Faith, I would not give my hopes for an  
          
          
             indifferent portion.  
          
          
             Facil. Nor I.  
          
          
             Adviser. The truth is, We are all stuft with Hopes,  
             as Cushions are with Feathers.  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Courtly.  
          
          
             Court. O Gentlemen, Gentlemen, we are all utter-  
             ly undone.  
          
          
             Adviser. Why, what's the matter?  
          
          
             Court. Why, the Lady Happy hath incloister'd  
          
          
             her self, with twenty Ladies more.  
              Adviser   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 11  
          
          
             Adviser. The Devil she hath?  
          
          
             Facil. The gods forbid.  
          
          
             Court. Whether it was the devil or the gods that  
             have perswaded her to it, I cannot tell; but gone in  
             she is.  
          
          
             Takepl. I hope it is but a blast of Devotion, which  
             will soon flame out.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Mediator.  
          
          
             Takepl. O Madam Mediator, we are all undone,  
             the Lady Happy is incloister'd.  
          
          
             Mediat. Yes, Gentlemen, the more is the pitty.  
          
          
             Adviser. Is there no hopes?  
          
          
             Mediat. Faith, little.  
          
          
             Facil. Let us fee the Clergy to perswade her out,  
             for the good of the Commonwealth.  
          
          
             Mediat. Alas Gentlemen ! they can do no good,  
             for she is not a Votress to the gods but to Nature.  
          
          
             Court. If she be a Votress to Nature , you are the  
             only Person fit to be Lady Prioress; and so by your  
             power and authority you may give us leave to visit  
             your Nuns sometimes.  
          
          
             Mediat. Not but at a Grate, unless in time of Buil-  
             ding, or when they are sick; but howsoever, the  
             Lady Happy is Lady-Prioress her self, and will ad-  
             mit none of the Masculine Sex, not so much as to a  
             Grate, for she will suffer no grates about the Cloister;  
             she has also Women-Physicians; Surgeons and Apo-  
             thecaries, and she is the chief Confessor her self, and  
              D  gives   
          
          
          
             II.  
          
          
             gives what Indulgences or Absolutions she pleaseth:  
             Also, her House, where she hath made her Convent,  
             is so big and convenient, and so strong, as it needs no  
             addition or repair: Besides, she has so much compass of  
             ground within her walls, as there is not only room  
             and place enough for Gardens, Orchards, Walks,  
             Groves, Bowers, Arbours, Ponds, Fountains, Springs  
             and the like; but also conveniency for much Pro-  
          
          
             vision, and hath Women for every Office and Employ-  
          
          
             ment: for though she hath not above twenty Ladies  
          
          
             with her, yet she hath a numerous Company of Fe-  
             male Servants, so as there is no occasion for Men.  
          
          
             Takepl. If there be so many Women, there will  
          
          
             be the more use for Men: But pray Madam Mediator,  
             give me leave, rightly to understand you , by being  
             more clearly informed : you say, The Lady Happy is  
             become a Votress to Nature; and if she a Votress  
             to Nature, she must be a Mistress to Men.  
          
          
             Mediat. By your favour, Sir, she declares, That  
             she hath avoided the company of Men, by retirement,  
             meerly, because she would enjoy the variety of Plea-  
             sures, which are in Nature; of which, she lays, Men  
             are Obstructers; for, instead of increasing Pleasure,  
             they produce Pain; and, instead of giving Content,  
             they increase Trouble; instead of making the Femal-  
             Sex Happy, they make them Miserable; for which  
             she hath banished the Masculine Company for ever.  
          
          
             Adviser. Her Heretical Opinions ought not to be  
          
          
              suffer'd   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Convent of Pleasure. 13  
          
          
             suffer'd, nor her Doctrine allow'd ; and she ought to  
             be examined by a Masculine Synod , and punish'd  
             with a severe Husband, or tortured with a deboist  
             Husband.  
          
          
             Mediat. The best way, Gentlemen, is to make your  
             Complaints, and put up a Petition to the State, with  
             your desires for a Redress.  
          
          
             Court. Your Counsel is good.  
          
          
             Facil. We will follow it, and go presently about  
             it. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter the Lady Happy, with her Ladies;as also Madam  
             Mediator.  
          
          
             Lady Happy.  
              L Adies, give me leave to desire your Confession,  
             whether or no you repent your Retirement.  
             Ladies. Most excellent Lady, it were as probable a  
             repentance could be in Heaven amongst Angels as  
             amongst us.  
             L. Happy. Now Madam Mediator, let me ask you,  
             Do you condemn my act of Retirement?  
             Mediat. I approve of it with admiration and won-  
             der, that one that is so young should be so wise.  
             L. Happy. Now give me leave to inform you, how  
             I have order'd this our Convent of Pleasure; first, I  
              have   
          
          
          
             14 The Convent of Pleasure. Act II.  
          
          
             have such things as are for our Ease and Conveniency ;  
             next for Pleasure, and Delight ; as I have change of  
             Furniture, for my house; according to the four Sea-  
             sons of the year, especially our Chambers: As in the  
             Spring, our Chambers are hung with Silk-Damask,  
             and all other things suitable to it; and a great Looking-  
             Glass in each Chamber, that we may view our selves  
             and take pleasure in our own Beauties, whilst they are  
             fresh and young; also, I have in each Chamber a Cup-  
             board of such plate, as is useful, and whatsoever is to  
             be used is there ready to be imployed; also, I have all  
             the Floor strew'd with sweet Flowers: In the Summer  
             I have all our Chambers hung with Taffety, and all  
             other things suitable to it, and a Cup board of Purse-  
             line, and of Plate, and all the Floore strew'd every  
             day with green Rushes or Leaves, and Cisterns pla-  
             ced neer our Beds-heads, wherein Water may run out  
             of small Pipes made for that purpose: To invite repose  
             in the Autumn, all our Chambers are hung With Gilt  
             Leather, or Franchipane; also, Beds and all other  
             things suitable; and the Rooms Matted with very  
             fine Mats: in the Winter our Chambers must be hung  
             with Tapestry, and our Beds of Velvet, lined with  
             Sattin, and all things suitable to it, and all the Floor  
             spread over with Turkie Carpets, and a Cup-board of  
             Gilt Plate; and all the Wood for Firing to be Cy-  
             press and Juniper; and all the Lights to be Perfumed  
             Wax; also, the Bedding and Pillows are ordered ac-  
              cording   
          
          
             Scen. lI. The Convent of Pleasure. 15  
          
          
             cording to each Season ; viz. to be stuft with Feathers  
             in the Spring and Autumn, and with Down in  
             the Winter, but in the Summer to be only Quilts,  
             either of Silk, or fine Holland; and our Sheets, Pil-  
             lows, Table-Clothes and Towels, to be of pure fine  
             Holland, and every day clean; also, the Rooms we  
             eat in, and the Vessels we feed withal, I have accor-  
             ding to each Season; and the Linnen we use to our  
             Meat, to be pure fine Diaper, and Damask, and to  
             change it fresh every course of Meat: As for our Gal-  
             leries, Stair-Cases, and Passages, they shall be hung  
             with various Pictures; and, all along the Wall of our  
             Gallery, as long as the Summer lasts, do stand, upon  
             Pedestals, Flower-pots, with various Flowers; and in  
             the Winter Orange-Trees: and my Gardens to be  
             kept curiously, and flourish, in every Season of all  
             sorts of Flowers, sweet Herbs and Fruits, and kept so  
             as not to have a Weed in it, and all the Groves, Wil-  
             dernesses, Bowers and Arbours pruned, and kept free  
             from dead Boughs Branches or Leaves; and all the  
          
          
             Ponds, Rivolets, Fountains, and Springs, kept clear,  
          
          
             pure and fresh: Also, we will have the choisest Meats  
             every Season doth afford, and that every day our Meat,  
             be drest several ways, and our drink cooler or hotter  
             according to the several Seasons ; and all our Drinks  
             fresh and pleasing: Change of Garments are also pro-  
             vided, of the newest fashions for every Season, and  
          
          
             rich Trimming; so as we may be accoutred properly,  
              E  and   
          
          
          
             16 The Convent of Pleasure. Act II.  
          
          
             and according to our several pastimes : and our Shifts  
          
          
             shall be of the finest and purest Linnen that can be  
          
          
             bought or spun.  
             Ladies. None in this World can be happier.  
          
          
             L.Happy. Now Ladies, let us go to our several  
             Pastimes, if you please. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E III.  
             Enter Two Ladies.  
          
          
             Lady Amorous.  
              M Adam, how do you, since you were Married?  
             L.Vertue. Very well, I thank you.  
             L. Amor. I am not so well as I wish I were.  
             Enter Madam Mediator to them.  
             M. Mediat. Ladies, do you hear the News?  
             L.Vertue. What News?  
          
          
             M.Mediat. Why there is a great Foreign Princess  
             arrived, hearing of the famous Convent of Pleasure,to be  
             one of Nature's Devotes.  
          
          
             L.Amor. What manner of Lady is the?  
          
          
             M. Media. She is a Princely brave Woman truly,  
             of a Masculine Prelence.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. But, Madam Mediator, Do they live  
             in such Pleasure as you say? for they'l admit you, a  
             Widow, although not us, by reason we are Wives.  
          
          
             M. Media. In so much Pleasure, as Nature never  
              knew,   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Convent of Pleasure. 17  
          
          
             knew, before this Convent was: and for my part, I  
             had rather be one in the Convent of Pleasure, then Em-  
             press of the whole World ; for every Lady there  
             enjoyeth as much Pleasure as any absolute Monarch  
             can do, without the Troubles and Cares , that wait  
             on Royalty ; besides, none can enjoy those Pleasures  
             They have, unless they live such a retired or retreated  
             life free from the Worlds vexations.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. Well, I wish I might see and know,  
             What Pleasures they enjoy.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. If you were there, you could not  
             know all their Pleasure in a short time,for their Varieties  
             will require along time to know their several Changes;  
             befides, their Pleasures and Delights vary with the Sea-  
             sons; so that what with the several Seasons, and the  
             Varieties of every Season, it will take up a whole  
             life's time.  
          
          
             L. Vertue. But I could judg of their Changes by  
             their single Principles.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. But they have Variety of one and the  
             same kind.  
          
          
             L.Vertue. But I should see the way or manner of  
             them.  
          
          
             M.Mediat. That you might. Exeunt.  
          
          
              SCENE   
          
          
          
             18 The Convent of Pleaure. Act II.  
          
          
             SCENE IV.  
          
          
             Enter Monfieur Adviser, Courtly, Take-pleasure,  
             and Facil.  
          
          
             Monsieur Courtly.  
              I S there no hopes to get thole Ladies out of their  
             Convent?  
          
          
             Adviser. No faith, unless we could set the Convent  
             on fire.  
          
          
             Takepl. For Jupiter's sake, let us do it, let's every  
             one carry a Fire-brand to fire it.  
          
          
             Court. Yes,and smoak them out, as they do a Swarm  
             of Bees.  
          
          
             Facil. Let's go presently about it.  
          
          
             Adviser. Stay, there is a great Princess there.  
          
          
             Takepl. 'Tis true, but when that Princess is gone, we  
             will surely do it.  
          
          
             Adviser. Yes, and be punish'd for our Villany.  
          
          
             Takepl. It will not prove Villany, for we shall do  
             Nature good service.  
          
          
             Adviser. Why, so we do Nature good service,  
             When we get a Wench With Child, but yet the Civil  
             Laws do punish us for it.  
          
          
             Court. They are not Civil Laws that punish  
             Lovers.  
             Adviser. But those are Civil Laws that punish  
          
          
             Adulterers.  
              Court.   
          
          
             Scene. IV. The Convent of Pleasure. 19  
          
          
             Court. Those are Barbarous Laws that make Love  
             Adultery.  
          
          
             Adviser. No,Those are Barbarous that make A-  
          
          
             dultery Love.  
             Facil. Well, leaving Love and Adultery, They  
             are foolish Women that vex us with their Retirement.  
          
          
             Adviser. Well, Gentlemen, although we rail at the  
             Lady Happy for Retiring, yet if I had such an Estate  
             as she, and would follow her Example ; I make no  
             doubt but you would all be content to encloister your  
             selves with me upon the same conditions, as those La-  
             dies incloister themselves with her.  
          
          
             Takepl. Not unless you had Women in your  
             Convent.  
          
          
             Advis. Nay, faith, since Women can quit the  
             pleasure of Men, we Men may well quit the trouble  
             of Women.  
          
          
             Court. But is there no place there we may peak in-  
             to the Convent?  
          
          
             Adviser. No, there are no Grates , but Brick and  
             Stone-walls.  
          
          
             Facil. Let us get out some of the Bricks or Stones.  
          
          
             Adviser. Alas! the Walls are a Yard-thick.  
          
          
             Facil. But nothing is difficult to Willing-minds;  
          
          
             Adviser. My Mind is willing ; but my Reason  
          
          
             tells me, It is impossible ; wherefore, I'le never go  
          
          
             about it.  
             Takepl. Faith, let us resolve to put our selves.m  
          
          
              F  Wo-   
          
          
          
             20 The Convent of Pleasure. Act II.  
          
          
             Womens apparel , and so by that means get into the  
             Convent.  
          
          
             Adviser. We shall be discover'd.  
             Takepl. Who will discover Us?  
          
          
             Adviser. We shall discover our Selves.  
          
          
             Takepl. We are not such fools as to betray our  
          
          
             Selves.  
          
          
             Adviser. VVe cannot avoid it, for, our very Garb  
             and Behaviour ; befides,our Voices will discover us:for  
             we are as untoward to make Courtsies in Petticoats, as  
             VVomen are to make Legs in Breeches ; and it will  
             be as great a difficulty to raise our Voices to a Treble-  
             sound, as for VVomen to press down their Voices  
          
          
             to a Base ; besides, VVe shall never frame our Eyes  
             ayd Mouths to such coy,dissembling looks, and pritty  
             simpering Mopes and Smiles, as they do.  
          
          
             Court. But we will go as strong lusty Country-  
          
          
             VVenches, that desire to serve them in Inferiour Places,  
             and Offices, as Cook-maids, Landry-maids, Dairy-  
             maids, and the like.  
          
          
             Facil. I do verily believe, I could make an indiffer-  
             ent Cook-maid, but not a Laundry, nor a Dairy-  
             maid ; for I cannot milk Cows, nor starch Gorgets,  
             but l think could make a pretty shift, to wash some  
             of the Ladies Night-Linnen.  
          
          
             Takepl. But they imploy Women in all Places in  
             their Gardens; and for Brewing, Baking and making  
             all forts of things; besides, some keep their Swine, and  
          
          
              twenty   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Convent of Pleasure 21  
          
          
             twenty such like Offices and Employments there are  
          
          
             which we should be very proper for.  
          
          
             Facil. O yes, for keeping of Swine belongs to Men ;  
             remember the Prodigal Son.  
          
          
             Adviser. Faith, for our Prodigality we might be all  
             Swin-heards.  
          
          
             Court. Also we shall be proper for Gardens, for  
             we can dig, and set, and sow.  
          
          
             Takepl. And we are proper for Brewing.  
          
          
             Adviser. We are more proper for Drinking, for I  
             can drink good Beer, or Ale, when 'tis Brew'd; but  
             I could not brew such Beer, or Ale, as any man could  
             drink.  
          
          
             Facil. Come, come, we shall make a shift one way  
             or other: Besides, we shall be very willing to learn,  
             and be very diligent in our Services, which will give  
             good and great content; wherefore, let us go and put  
             their designes into execution.  
          
          
             Courtly. Content, content.  
          
          
             Advistr. Nay, faith, let us not trouble our Selves  
             for it, 'tis in wain. Exeunt.  
          
          
              ACT   
          
          
          
             22 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III.  
          
          
             A C T III. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess, and the Lady Happy, with the  
             rest of the Ladies belonging to the Convent.  
          
          
             Lady Happy.  
          
          
              M Adam, Your Highness has done me much Ho-  
             nour, to come from a Splendid Court to a re-  
          
          
             tired Convent.  
          
          
             Prin. Sweet Lady Happy, there are many, that have  
             quit their Crowns and Power, for a Cloister of Re-  
             straint; then well may I quit a Court of troubles for  
             a Convent of Pleasure : but the greatest pleasure I could  
             receive, were, To have your Friendship.  
          
          
             L. Happy. I should be ungrateful, should not be  
             not only your Friend , but humble Servant.  
          
          
             Prin. I desire you would be my Mistress,and I your  
             Servant; and upon this agreement of Friendship I de-  
             sire you will grant me one Request.  
          
          
             L. Happy. Any thing that is in my power to grant.  
          
          
             Prin. Why then, I observing in your several Re-  
             creations, some of your Ladies do accoustre Themselves  
             in Masculine Habits, and act Lovers-parts; I desire  
             you will give me leave to be sometimes so accoustred  
             and act the part of your loving Servant.  
          
          
             L.Happy. I shall never desire to have any other  
          
          
             loving Servant then your Self.  
             Prin. Nor I any other loving Mistress then Your-  
             Self.  L. Happy.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 23  
          
          
             L. Happy. More innocent Lovers never can there be,  
             Then my most Princely Lover, that's a She.  
          
          
             Prin. Nor never Convent did such pleasures give,  
             Where Lovers with their Mistresses may live.  
             Enter a Lady, asking whether they will see  
          
          
             the Play.  
             Lady. May it please your Highness, the Play is rea-  
             dy to be Acted.  
          
          
             The Scene is opened, the Princess and L. Happy sit down,  
             and the Play is Acted within the Scene; the Princess  
             and the L. Happy being Spectators.  
          
          
             Enter one drest like a Man that speaks the Prologue.  
          
          
             Noble Spectators, you shall see to night  
          
          
             A Play, which though't be dull, yet's short to light ;  
             For, since we cannot please your Ears with Wit,  
             We will not tyre your limbs, long here to fit.  
          
          
             G SCENE  
          
          
          
             24 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter Two mean Women.  
          
          
             First Woman.  
              O Neighbour well met, where have you been ?  
          
          
             2 Woman. I have been with my Neighbour  
             the Cobler's Wife to comfort her for the loss of her  
             Husband, who is run away with Goody Mettle the  
             Tinker's Wife.  
          
          
             1 Woman. I would to Heaven my Husband would  
             run away with Goody Shred the Botcher's Wife, for he  
             lies all day drinking in Ale-houle, like a drunken  
          
          
             Rogue as he is, and When he comes home, he beats me  
             all black and blew, when I and my Children are almost  
             starved for want.  
          
          
             2 Woman. Truly Neighbour,so doth my Husband;  
             and spends not only what he gets, but what I earn with  
             the sweat of my brows , the whilst my Children cry  
             for bread, and he drinks that away, that should feed  
             my small Children, which are too young to work for  
             themselves.  
          
          
             1. Woman. But I will go, and pull my Husband out  
             of the Ale-house, or I'le break their Lattice-windows  
             down.  
          
          
             2 Woman. Come, I'le go and help; for my Husband  
             is there too: but shall be both beaten by them.  
          
          
             1 Woman. I care not: for I will not suffer him to be  
          
          
              drunk,   
          
          
             Scen.III.IV. The Convent of Pleasure. 25  
          
          
             drunk, and I and my Children starve; I had better be  
             dead. Exeunt.  
             SCENE III.  
          
          
             Enter a Lady and her Maid.  
          
          
              L Ady. Oh, I am sick!  
             Maid. You are breeding a Child, Madam.  
             Lady. I have not one minutes time of health. Ex.  
          
          
             S C E N E IV.  
             Enter Two Ladies.  
          
          
             First Lady.  
              W Hy weep you, Madam?  
             2 Lady. Have I not cause to weep when my  
             Husband hath play'd all his Estate away at Dice and  
             Cards, even to the Clothes on his back?  
          
          
             1 Lady. I have as much cause to weep then as you;  
             for,though my Husband hath not lost his Estate at play,  
             yet he hath spent it amongst his Whores ; and is not  
             content to keep Whores abroad, but in my house,  
             under my roof, and they must rule as chief Mistresses.  
          
          
             2 Lady. But my Husband hath not only lost his  
             own Estate, but also my Portion, and hath forced  
          
          
             me with threats, to yield up my Jointure, for that I  
              must   
          
          
          
             26 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III.  
             must beg for my living, for any things know as yet.  
             1 Lady. If all Married Women were as unhappy as  
          
          
             I, Marriage were a curse.  
          
          
             2 Lady. No doubt of it. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE V.  
          
          
             Enter a Lady, as almost distracted, running about the Stage,  
             and her Maid follows her.  
          
          
              L Ady. Oh! my Child is dead, my child is dead,  
             what shall I do, what shall I do ?  
             Maid. You must have patience, Madam.  
             Lady. Who can have patience to lose their only  
             Child? who can! Oh I shall run mad, for I have no  
             patience.  
          
          
             Runs off the Stage. Exit Maid after her.  
          
          
             S C E N E VI.  
             Enter a Citizen's Wife, as into a Tavern, where a Bush is  
             hung out, and meets some Gentlemen there.  
          
          
             Citizen's Wife.  
              P Ray Gentlemen, is my Husband, Mr. Negligent  
             here ?  
          
          
             1 Gent. He was, but he is gone some quarter of an  
             hour since.  
          
          
              Cit.   
          
          
             Scen. VIII. The Convent of Pleasure. 27  
          
          
             Cit. Wife. Could he go, Gentlemen ?  
          
          
             2 Gent. Yes, with a Supporter.  
          
          
             Cit.Wife. Out upon him! must he be supported?  
             Upon my credit Gentlemen, he will undo himself and  
             me too, with his drinking and carelesness, leaving his  
             Shop and all his Commodities at six's and seven's ; and  
             his Prentices and Journey-men are as careless and idle  
             as he; besides,they cozen him of his Wares. But, was  
             it a He She-Supporrer, my Husband was supported  
             by ?  
          
          
             1 Gent. A She-supporter;for it was one of the Maid-  
             servants, which belong to this Tavern.  
          
          
             Cit. Wife. Out upon him Knave, must he have a  
             She-supporter,in the Devil's name?but I'le go and seek  
             them both out with a Vengeance.  
          
          
             2. Gent. Pray, let us, intreat your stay to drink a cup  
             of Wine with us;.  
          
          
             Cit. Wife. I will take your kind Offer ; for Wine  
             may chance to abate Cholerick vapours , and pacifie  
             the Spleen.  
          
          
             1 Gent. That it will; for Wine and good Company  
             are one only abaters of Vapours.  
          
          
             2. Gent. It doth not abate Vapours so much as cure  
             Melancholy.  
          
          
             Cit.Wife. In truth, I find a cup of Wine doth com-  
             fort me sometimes.  
          
          
             1 Gent. It will cheer the Heart.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Yes, and enlighten the Understanding.  
          
          
              H  Cit.   
          
          
          
             28 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III·  
             Cit. Wife. Indeed, and my understanding requires  
             enlightening. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE VII  
             Enter a Lady bug with Child, groaning as in labour, and a  
             Company of Women with her.  
          
          
              O H my back, my back will break, Oh! Oh! Oh!  
             1 Woman. Is the Midwife sent for?  
             2 Woman. Yes, but she is with another Lady.  
             Lady. oh my back! On! Oh! Oh! Juno, give me  
             some ease. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE. VIII.  
          
          
             Enter two Ancient Ladies.  
          
          
             1 L Ady. I have brought my Son into the World  
          
          
             with great pains,bred him with tender care, much  
             pains and great cost;and must henow be hang'd for killing  
             a Man in a quarrel ? when he should be a comfort and  
             staff of my age, is he to be my ages affliction ?  
          
          
             2 Lady. I confess it is a great affliction; but I have  
             had as great ; having had but two Daughters, and  
             them fair ones, though I say it, and might have mat-  
             ched them well : but one of them was got with Child to  
             my great disgrace ; th' other run away with my Butler,  
             not worthy the droppings of his Taps.  l Lady   
          
          
             Scen. IX, X. The Convent of Pleasure. 29  
             1 Lady. Who would desire Children, since they  
          
          
             come to such misfortunes? Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE IX.  
             Enter one Woman meeting another.  
          
          
             1  VV Oman. Is the Midwife come, for my Lady  
             is in a strong labour ?  
          
          
             2 Woman. No, she cannot come, for she hath been  
             with a Lady that hath been in strong labour these  
             three days of a dead child, and 'tis thought she cannot  
             be delivered.  
             Enter another Woman.  
          
          
             3 Woman. Come away, the Midwife is come.  
          
          
             1 Woman. Is the Lady deliver'd, she was withall?  
          
          
             3 Woman. Yes,of life;for she contain be delivered,  
             and so she died.  
          
          
             2 Woman. Pray tell not our Lady so; for, the very  
             fright of not being able to bring forth a Child will  
             kill her. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE X.  
             Enter a Gentleman who meets a fair Young Lady.  
          
          
              G Ent. Madam, my Lord desires your to command  
             whatsoever you please, and it shall be obey'd.  
             Lady. I dare not command , but I humbly intreat,  
          
          
             I may live quiet and free from his Amours.   Gent.   
          
          
          
             30 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III.  
          
          
             Gent. He says he cannot live, and not love you.  
          
          
             Lady. But he may live, and not lie with me.  
          
          
             Gent. He cannot be happy, unless he enjoy you.  
          
          
             Lady. And I must be unhappy, if he should.  
          
          
             Gent. He commanded me to tell you that he will  
             part from his Lady for your sake.  
          
          
             Lady. Heaven forbid, I should part Man and Wife.  
          
          
             Gent. Lady, he will be divorced for your sake.  
          
          
             Lady. Heaven forbid I should be the cause of a  
             Divorce between a Noble Fair.  
          
          
             Gent. You had best consent; for, otherwise he will  
             have you against your will.  
          
          
             Lady. I will send his Lordship an answer to mor-  
             row ; pray him to give me so much time.  
          
          
             Gent. I shall, Lady. Exit Gentleman.  
          
          
             Lady Sola.  
          
          
             Lady; I must prevent my own ruin, an the sweet  
             virtuous Ladies, by going into a Nunnery ; where-  
             fore, I'le put my self into one to night:  
          
          
             There will I live, and serve the Gods on high,  
             And leave this wicked World and Vanity.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             One enters and speaks the Epilogue.  
             Marriage is a Curse we find,  
             Especially to Women kind:  
          
          
             From the Cobler's VVife we see,  
             To Ladies, they unhappie be.  
              L. Happy.   
          
          
             Scen. X. The Convent of Pleasure. 31  
          
          
             L. Happy to the Prin. Pray Servant, how do you  
             like this Play?  
          
          
             Prin. My sweet Mistress, I cannot in conscience ap-  
             prove of it; for though some few be unhappy in Mar-  
             riage, yet there are many more that are so happy as  
             they would not change their condition.  
          
          
             L. Happy. O Servant, I fear you will become an  
             Apostate.  
          
          
             Prin. Not to you sweet Mistress. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter the Gentlemen.  
          
          
             1 Gent. There is no hopes of dissolving this Convent  
             as Pleasure.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Faith; not as I can perceive.  
          
          
             3 Gent. We may be sure, this Convent will never be  
             diffolved,by reason it is ennobled with the company of  
          
          
             great Princesses, and glorified with a great Fame; but  
          
          
             the fear is, that all the rich Heirs will make Convents,and  
             all the Young Beauties associate themselves in such  
             Convents.  
          
          
             1 Gent. You speak reason; wherefore, let us endea-  
             vour to get Wives, before they are Incloister'd.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              I  ACT   
          
          
          
             30 The Convent of Pleasure. Act III.  
          
          
             Gent. He says he cannot live, and not love you.  
          
          
             Lady. But he may live, and not lie with me.  
          
          
             Gent. He cannot be happy, unless he enjoy you.  
          
          
             Lady. And I must be unhappy, if he should.  
          
          
             Gent. He commanded me to tell you that he will  
             part from his Lady for your sake.  
          
          
             Lady. Heaven forbid, I should part Man and Wife.  
          
          
             Gent. Lady, he will be divorced for your sake.  
          
          
             Lady. Heaven forbid I should be the cause of a  
             Divorce between a Noble Pair.  
          
          
             Gent. You had best consent ; for, otherwise he will  
             have you against your will.  
          
          
             Lady. I will send his Lordship an answer to mor-  
             row, pray him to give me so much time.  
          
          
             Gent. I shall,Lady. Exit Gentleman.  
          
          
             Lady Sola.  
          
          
             Lady. I must prevent my own ruin, and the sweet  
             virtuous Ladies, by going into a Nunnery ; where-  
             fore, I'le put my self into one to night :  
          
          
             There will I live, and serve the Gods on high,  
             And leave this wicked World and Vanity.  
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             One enters and speaks the Epilogue.  
             Marriage is a Curst we find,  
             Especially to Women kind:  
          
          
             From the Cobler's VVife we see,  
             To Ladies, they unhappie be.  
          
          
             Scene. X. The Convent of Pleasure. 31  
          
          
             L. Happy to the Prin. Pray Servant, how do you  
             like this Play?  
          
          
             Prin. My sweet Mistress, cannot in conscience ap-  
             prove of it; for though some few be unhappy in Mar-  
             riage, yet there are many more that are so happy as  
             they would not change their condition.  
          
          
             L. Happy. O Servant, I fear you will become an  
          
          
             Apostate.  
          
          
             Prin. Not to you sweet Mistress. Exeunt.  
             Enter the Gentlemen.  
          
          
             1 Gent. There is no hopes of dissolving this Convent  
             of Pleasure.  
          
          
             2 Gent. Faith; not as I can perceive.  
          
          
             3 Gent. We may be sure, this Convent will never be  
             diffolved,by reason it is ennobled with the company of  
          
          
             great Princesses, and glorified with a great Fame; but  
          
          
             the fear is, that all the rich Heirs will make Convents,and  
             all the Young Beauties associate themselves in such  
             Convents.  
          
          
             1 Gent. You speak reason; Wherefore, let us endea-  
             vour to get Wives, before they are Incloister'd.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             p---.-,-------,.-...---  
          
          
              I  ACT   
          
          
          
             32 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
          
          
             A C T IV. SCENE I.  
             Enter Lady Happy drest as a Shepherdes ; She walks very  
             Melancholy, then speaks as to her self.  
          
          
              M Y Name is Happy , and so was my Condition,  
          
          
             before I saw this Princes ; but now I am like to  
             be the most unhappy Maid alive: But why may not  
          
          
             I love a Woman with the fame affection I could a  
          
          
             Man ?  
             No, no, Nature is Nature, and still will be  
             The same she was from all Eternity.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess in Masculine Shepherd's Clothes.  
          
          
             Prin.My dearest Mistress,do you shun my Company?  
             is your Servant become an offence to your fight?  
             L. Happy. No, Servant! your Presence is more ac-  
             ceptable to me then the Presence of our Goddess Nature,  
          
          
             for which she, I fear will punish me, for loving you  
          
          
             more then I ought to love you.  
             Prin. Can Lovers love too much ?  
             L. Happy. Yes, if they love not well.  
          
          
             Prin. Can any Love be more vertuous, innocent  
             and harmless then ours ?  
          
          
             L. Happy. I hope not.  
             Prin. Then let us please our selves, as harmless Lo-  
             vers use to do.  
          
          
             L. Happy.  
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 33  
          
          
             L.Happy. How can harmless Lovers please them-  
             selves ?  
          
          
             Prin. Why very well as, to discourse,imbrace and  
             kiss, to mingle souls together.  
          
          
             L. Happy. But innocent Lovers do not use to kiss.  
          
          
             Prin. Not any act more frequent amongst us Wo-  
          
          
             men-kind ; nay, it were a sin in friendship, should not  
             we kiss: then let us not prove our selves Reprobates.  
          
          
             They imbrace and kiss,and hold each other in their Arms.  
          
          
             Prin. These my Imbraces though of Femal kind,  
          
          
             May be as fervent as a Masculine mind.  
          
          
             The Scene is open'd,the Princess and L. Happy go in.  
             A Pastoral within the Scene.  
          
          
             The Scene is changed into a Green, or Plain, where Sheep  
             are feeding, and a May-pole in the middle.  
          
          
             L. Happy as a Shepherdess, and the Princess as a Shep-  
             herd are sitting there.  
             Enter another Shepherd,andWooes the Lady Happy.  
          
          
             Shepherd.  
              F Air Shepherdess do not my Suit deny,  
             O grant my Suit, let me not for Love die :  
             Pity my Flocks, Oh save their Shepherd's life;  
          
          
             Grant you my Suit, be you their Shepherd's Wife.  
          
          
              L.Happy.   
          
          
          
             34 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
          
          
             L. Happy. How can I grant to every ones request?  
             Each Shepherd's Suit lets me not be at rest;  
          
          
             For which I wish, the Winds might blow them far,  
             That no Love-Suit might enter to my Ear.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Mediator in a Shephardess drest, and  
             another Shepherd.  
          
          
             Sheph.GoodDame unto your Daughter speak for me.  
             Perswade her I your Son in Law may be:  
             I'le serve your Swine, your Cows bring home to Milk;  
             Attend your Sheep, Whole Wool's as soft as Silk;  
             I'le- plow your Grounds, Corn I'le in Winter sow,  
             Then reap your Harvest, and your Grass I'le mow;  
             Gather your Fruits in Autumn from the Tree.  
             All this and more I'le do, if y' speak for me.  
             Shepherdess. My Daughter vows a single life,  
             And swears, she n're will be a Wife;  
             But live a Maid, and Flocks will keep,  
             And her chief Company shall be Sheep.  
          
          
             The Princess as a Shepherd,speaks to the Lady Happy.  
          
          
             Prin.My Shepherdess, your Wit flies high,  
             Up to the Skie,  
             And Views the Gates of Heaven,  
             Which are the Planets Seven ;  
             Sees how fixt Stars are plac'd,  
          
          
             And how the Meteors wast;  What   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 35  
          
          
             VVhat makes the Snow so white,  
             And how the Sun makes light;  
             VVhat makes the biting Cold  
             On every thing take hold ;  
          
          
             And Hail a mixt degree,  
          
          
             'Twixt Snow and Ice you see  
             From whence the VVinds do blow;  
             VVhat Thunder is, you know,  
             And what makes Lightning flow  
             Like liquid streams, you show.  
             From Skie you come to th' Earth,  
             And view each Creature's birth;  
             Sink to the Center deep,  
          
          
             Where all dead bodies sleep ;  
          
          
             And there observe to know,  
             What makes the Minerals grow;  
             How Vegetables sprout,  
          
          
             And how the Plants come out ;  
             Take notice of all Seed,  
          
          
             And what the Earth doth breed ;  
             Then view the Springs below,  
             And mark how Waters flow;  
             What makes the Titles to rise  
          
          
             Up proudly to the Skies,  
          
          
             And shrinking back descend,  
          
          
             As fearing to offend.  
             Also your Wit doth view  
          
          
             The Vapour and the Bow;  
              K  In   
          
          
          
             36 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
             In Summer's heat, that Wet  
          
          
             Doth seem like the Earth's Sweat;  
          
          
             in Winter-time, that Dew  
          
          
             Like paint 's white to the view,  
          
          
             Cold makes that thick, white, dry;  
          
          
             As Cerusse it doth lie  
          
          
             on th' Earth's black face, so fair  
          
          
             As painted Ladies are;  
          
          
             But, when a heat is felt,  
          
          
             That Frosty paint doth melt.  
          
          
             Thus Heav'n and Earth you view,  
          
          
             And fee what's Old, what's New;  
          
          
             How Bodies Transmigrate,  
          
          
             Lives are Predestinate.  
          
          
             Thus doth your Wit reveal  
          
          
             What Nature would conceal.  
          
          
             L. Happy. My Shepherd,  
          
          
             All those that live do know it,  
          
          
             That you are born a Poet,  
          
          
             Your Wit doth search Mankind,  
          
          
             In Body and in Mind;  
          
          
             The Appetites you measure,  
          
          
             And weigh each several Pleasure;  
          
          
             Do figure every Passion,  
          
          
             And every Humor's fashion;  
          
          
             See how the Fancie's wrought,  
          
          
             And what makes every Thought;  
          
          
             Fadom Conceptions low,  
             From whence Opinios flow;  Ob-   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 37  
          
          
             Observe the Memorie's length,  
          
          
             And Understanding's strength  
          
          
             Your Wit doth Reason find,  
          
          
             The Centre of the Mind,  
          
          
             Wherein the Rational Soul  
          
          
             Doth govern and controul,  
          
          
             There doth she fit in State,  
             Predestinate by Fate,  
          
          
             And by the Gods Decree,  
          
          
             That Sovereign She should be.  
          
          
             And thus your VVit can tell,  
          
          
             How Souls in Bodies dwell ;  
          
          
             As that the Mind dwells in the Brain,  
             And in the Mind the Soul doth raign,  
             And in the Soul the life doth last,  
             For with the Body it doth not wast;  
             Nor shall VVit like the Body die,  
             But live in the VVorlds Memory.  
          
          
             Prin. May I live in your favour, and be possest  
             with your Love and Person, is the height of my  
             ambitions.  
          
          
             L.Happy. I can neither deny you my Love nor  
             Person.  
          
          
             Prin. In amorous Pastoral Verse we did not Woo.  
             As other Pastoral Lovers use to doo.  
          
          
             L.Ha. Which doth express,we shall more constant be,  
             And in a Married life better agree.  
          
          
              Prin.   
          
          
          
             38 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
          
          
             Prin. VVe shall agree, for we true Love inherit,  
             Join as one Body and Soul, or Heav'nly Spirit.  
          
          
             Here come Rural Sports, as Country Dances about the  
             Map-Pole : that Pair which Dances best is Crowned  
             King and Queen of the Shepherds that year; which  
          
          
             happens to the Princess, and the Lady Happy.  
          
          
             L.Happy to the Princ. Let me tell you, Servant,that  
             our Custome is to dance about this May-Pole, and that  
             Pair which Dances best is Crown'd King and Queen  
             of all the Shepherds and Shepherdesses this year:  
             VV hich Sport if it please you we will begin.  
          
          
             Prin. Nothing, Sweetest Mistress, that pleases you,  
             can displease me.  
          
          
             They Dance; after the Dancing the Princess and Lady  
          
          
             Happy are Crowned with a Garland of Flowers: a  
             Shepherds speaks.  
          
          
              Y Ou 've won the prize; and justly ; so we all  
             Acknowledg it with joy, and offer here  
             our Hatchments up, our Sheep-hooks as your due,  
             And Scrips of Cordant, and Oaten pipe;  
          
          
             So all our Pastoral Ornaments we lay  
          
          
             Here at your Feet, with Homage to obay  
          
          
             All your Commands, and all these things we bring  
             In honour of our dancing Queen and King ;  
          
          
              For   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 39  
          
          
             For Dancing heretofore has got more Riches  
             Then we can find in all our Shepherds Breeches;  
             Witness rich Holmby: Long then may you live,  
             And for your Dancing what we have we give.  
          
          
             A Waffel is carried about and Syllibubs.  
             Another Shepherd speaks, or Sings this that follows.  
          
          
              T He Jolly Waffel now do bring,  
          
          
             With Apples drown'd in stronger Ale,  
             And freisher Syllabubs, and sing;  
          
          
             Then each to tell their Love-sick Tale :  
          
          
             So home by Couples, land thus draw  
          
          
             Our selves by holy Hymen's Law.  
          
          
             The Scene Vanishes.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess Sola, and walks a turn or two in a  
          
          
             Musing posture, then views her Self , and speaks.  
          
          
             Prin. What have I on a Petticoat, Oh Mars! thou  
             God of War, pardon my sloth ; but yet remember  
             thou art a Lover, and so am I; but you will say,my  
             Kingdom wants me, not only to rule, and govern it,  
             but to defend it: But what is a Kingdom in compa-  
             rison a Beautiful Mistress? Base thoughts flie off,  
             for I will not go; did not only a Kingdom, but the  
             World want me. Exeunt.  
          
          
              L  Enter   
          
          
          
             40 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
          
          
             Enter the Lady Happy Sola, and Melancholy, and  
             after a short Musing speaks.  
          
          
             L. Happy. O Nature, O you gods above,  
             Suffer me not to fall in Love ;  
             O strike me dead here in this place  
             Rather then fall into disgrace.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Mediator.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. What,Lady Happy,solitary alone! and  
             Musing like a disconsolate Lover !  
          
          
             L. Happy. No, I was Meditating of Holy things.  
          
          
             M.Mediat. Holy things! what Holy things?  
          
          
             L. Happy. Why,such Holy things as the Gods are.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. By my truth, whether your Contem-  
             plation be of Gods or of Men, you are become lean  
             and pale since I was in the Convent last.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess.  
          
          
             Princ. Come my sweet Mistress, shall we go to our  
             Sports and Recreations?  
          
          
             M.Mediat. Beshrew me, your Highness hath spor-  
             ted too much I fear.  
          
          
             Princ. Why, Madam Mediator, say you so?  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Because the Lady Happy looks not well,  
          
          
             she is become pale and lean.  Princ.   
          
          
             Scene. I The Convent of Pleasure. 41  
          
          
             Princ. Madam Mediator, your eyes are become  
             dim with Time ; for my sweet Mistress appears with  
             greater splendor then the God of Light.  
          
          
             M.Mediat. For all you are great Princess, give me  
          
          
             leave to tell you,  
          
          
             I am not so old nor yet so blind,  
             But that I see you are too kind.  
          
          
             Princ. Well, Madam Mediator, when we return  
             from our Recreations , I will ask your pardon, for  
             saying, your eyes are dim, conditionally you will ask  
             pardon for saying, my Mistress looks not well.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             The Scene is opened, and there is presented a Rock as in  
             the Sea , whereupon sits the Princess and the Lady  
             Happy; the Princess as the Sea-God Neptune, the  
             Lady Happy as a Sea-Goddest : the rest of the Ladies  
             sit somewhat lower, drest like Water-Nymphs ; the  
             Princess begins to streak a Speech in Verse, and after  
             her the Lady Happy makes her Speech.  
          
          
              I Am the King of all the Seas,  
             All Watry Creatures do me please,  
             Obey my Power and Command,  
             And bring me Presents from the Land ;  
             The Waters open their Flood-gates,  
             VVhere Ships do pass, sent by the Fates;  
             VVhich Fates do yearly, as May-Dew,  
          
          
             Send me a Tribute from Peru,  
              From   
          
          
          
             42 The Convent of Pleafure. Act IV.  
          
          
             From other Nations besides,  
             Brought by their Servants, Winds and Tides,  
             Ships fraught and Men to me they bring;  
             My Watery Kingdom lays them in.  
             Thus from the Earth a Tributes I  
             Receive, which shews my power thereby :  
             Besides, my Kingdom's richer far  
             Then all the Earth and every Star.  
             L. Happy. I feed the Sun, which gives them light  
             And makes them shine in darkest night,  
             Moist vapour from my brest I give,  
             Which he sucks forth, and makes him live,  
             Or else his Fire would soon go out,  
             Grow dark, or burn the World throughout.  
             Princ. What Earthly Creature's like to me,  
             That hath such Power and Majestie ?  
             My Palaces are Rocks of Stone,  
             And built by Natute's hand alone;  
             No base, dissembling, coz ning Art  
             Do I imploy in any part,  
             In all my Kingdom large and wide,  
             Nature directs and doth provide  
             Me all Provisions which I need,  
             And Cooks my Meat on Which I feed.  
             L. Happy. My Cabinets are Oyster-shells,  
             In which I keep my Orient-Pearls,  
             To open them I use the Tide,  
             As Keys to Locks, which opens wide,  
          
          
              The   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 43  
          
          
             The Oyster-shells then out I take;  
             Those, Orient-Pearls and Crowns do make;  
             And modest Coral I do wear,  
          
          
             VVhich blushes when it touches air.  
          
          
             On Silver-Waves I sit and sing,  
          
          
             And then the Fish lie listening:  
          
          
             Then fitting on a Rocky stone,  
             I comb my Hair with Fishes bone;  
          
          
             The whil'st Apollo, with his Beams,  
          
          
             Doth dry my Hair from wat'ry streams.  
             His Light doth glaze the Water's face,  
             Make the large Sea my Looking-Glass;  
          
          
             So When I swim on Waters high,  
          
          
             I see my self as I glide by:  
          
          
             But when the Sun begins to burn,  
          
          
             I back into my Waters turn,  
          
          
             And dive unto the bottom low:  
          
          
             Then on my head the Waters flow,  
          
          
             In Curled waves and Circles round;  
          
          
             And thus With Waters am I Crown'd.  
             Princ. Besides, within the Waters deep;  
          
          
             In hollow Rocks my Court I keep ;  
          
          
             of Amber-greece my Bed is made,  
          
          
             Whereon my softer Limbs are laid,  
          
          
             There take I Rest ; and whil'stl I sleep,  
          
          
             The Sea doth guard, and safe me keep  
          
          
             From danger; and, when I awake,  
             A Present of a Shipe doth make.  
              M  No   
          
          
          
             44 The Convent of Pleasure. Act IV.  
          
          
             No Prince on Earth hath more resort,  
             Nor keeps more Servants in his Court;  
             Of Mare-maids you're waited on,  
             And Mare-men do attend upon  
          
          
             My Person; some are Councellors,  
             Which order all my great Affairs;  
             Within my wat'ry Kingdom wide,  
             They help to rule, and so to guide  
             The Common-wealth.; and are by me  
             Prefer'd unto an high degree.  
          
          
             Some Judges are, and Magistrates,  
             Decide each Cause, and end Debates;  
             Others, Commanders in the War,  
             And home to Governments prefer;  
             Others are Neptune's Priests which pray  
             And preach when is a Holy day.  
             And thus with Method order I,  
          
          
             And govern all with Majesty;  
          
          
             I am sole Monarch of the Sea,  
          
          
             .  
          
          
             A Sea-Nymph Sings this following SONG.  
          
          
             1.  W E Watery Nymphs Rejoyce and Sing  
             About God Neptune our Sea's King ;  
             In Sea-green Habits, for to move  
             His God-head, for to fall in love.  
          
          
              2. That   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 45  
          
          
             2. That with his Trident he doth stay  
             Rough foaming Billows which obay :  
          
          
             And when in Triumph he doth stride  
             His manag'd Dolphin for to ride.  
          
          
             3. All his Sea-people to his wish,  
             From VVhale to Herring Subject Fish,  
             With Acclamations do attend him,  
             And pray's more Riches still to send him.  
             Exeunt.  
             The SCENE Vanishes.  
          
          
             ACT V. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter the Princess and the Lady Happy ; The Princess  
             is in a Man's Apparel as going to Dance ; they Whis-  
             per sometime; then the Lady Happy takes a Ribbon  
             from her arm, and gives it to the Princess, who gives  
             her another instead of that, and kisses her hand. They  
             go in and come presently out again with all the Company  
             to Dance, the Musick plays ; And after they have  
          
          
             Danced a little while , in comes Madam Mediator  
             wringing her hands, and spreading her arms ; and full of  
             Passion cries out.  
          
          
              O  Ladies, Ladies! you're all betrayed, undone,un-  
          
          
             done; for there is a man disguised in the Convent,  
          
          
             search and you'l find it.  
          
          
              They   
          
          
          
             46 The Convent of Pleasure. Act V.  
          
          
             They all skip from each other, as afraid of each other; only  
             the Princess and the Lady Happy stand still together.  
          
          
             Princ. You may make the search, Madam Medi-  
             ator ; but you will quit me, I am sure.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. By my faith but I will not, for you  
             are most to be suspected.  
          
          
             Princ. But you say,the Man is disguised like a Wo-  
          
          
             man, and I am accoustred like a Man.  
          
          
             M. Mediator. Fidle, fable, that is nothing to the  
          
          
             purpose.  
          
          
             Enter an Embassador to the Prince ; the Embassador  
             kneels,the Prince bids him rise.  
          
          
             Princ. What came you here for?  
          
          
             Embass. May it please your Highness, The Lords  
             of your Council sent me to inform your Highness,  
             that your Subjects are so discontented at your Ab-  
             sence , that if your Highness do not return into your  
             Kingdom soon , they'l enter this Kingdom by reason  
             they hear you are here; and some report as if your  
             Highness were restrained as Prisoner.  
          
          
             Princ. So I am,. but not by the State, but by this  
             Fair Lady, who must be your Soveraigness.  
          
          
              The   
          
          
             Scen. II. The Convent of Pleasure. 47  
          
          
             The Ambassador kneels and kisses her Hand.  
          
          
             Princ. But since I am discover'd, go from me to  
             the Councellors of this State, and inform them of my  
             being here, as also the reason, and that I ask their leave  
             I may marry this Lady; otherwise, tell them I will  
             have her by force of Arms. Exit Embassador.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. O the Lord ! I hope you will not  
             bring an Army, to take away all the women; will  
          
          
             you?  
             Princ. No,Maddam Mediator, we will leave you  
             behind us. Exeunt.  
          
          
             S C E N E II.  
             Enter Madam Mediator lamenting and crying with a  
             Handkerchief in her hand.  
          
          
              O Gentlemen, that I never had been born, we 're  
             all undone and lost!  
          
          
             Advis. Why, what's the matter?  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Matter? nay, I doubt, there's too  
          
          
             much Matter.  
          
          
             Advis. How?  
             M. Mediat. How, never such aMistake ; why we  
             have taken a Man for a Woman.  
             Advis. Why, a Man is for a Woman.  
             M.-Mediat;  
          
          
          
             48 The Convent of Pleasure. Act V.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Fidle fadle, I know that as well as you  
             can tell me ; but there was a young Man drest in  
             Woman's Apparel, and enter'd our Convent, and the  
             Gods know what he hath done : He is mighty handsome,  
             and that'sa great Temptation to Virtue; but I hope  
             all is well: But this wicked World will lay aspersion  
             upon any thing or nothing ; and therefore I doubt,  
             all muy sweet young Birds are undone, the Gods com-  
             fort them.  
          
          
             Courtly. But could you never discover it ? nor have  
             no hint he was a Man?  
          
          
             M. Mediat. No truly, only once I saw him kiss the  
             Lady Happy; and you know Womens Kisses are un-  
             natural, and me-thought they kissed with more alacrity  
             then Women use , a kind of Titillation, and more  
             Vigorous.  
          
          
             Adviss Why, did you not then examine it?  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Why, they would have said, I was  
             but an old jealous fool, and laught at me ; but Ex-  
             perience is a great matter; if the Gods had not been  
             merciful to me, he might have faln upon me.  
          
          
             Courtly. Why, what if he had ?  
          
          
             M.Mediat. Nay, if he had care not : for I defie  
             the Flesh as much ass renounce the Devil,and the pomp  
             of this wicked World; but if I could but have sav'd  
             my young sweet Virgins, I would willingly have sa-  
             crificed my body for them; for we are not born for  
          
          
             our selves but for others.  
          
          
              Advis.   
          
          
             Scen. I. The Convent of Pleasure. 49  
          
          
             Advis. 'Tis piously said, truly, lovingly and kindly.  
          
          
             M. Mediat.. Nay, I have read the Practice of Piety;  
          
          
             but further they say, He is a Foreign Prince; and they  
             say, They 're very hot.  
          
          
             Courtly. Why, you are Madam Mediator, you must  
             mediate and make a Friendship.  
          
          
             M.Mediat. Ods body what do you talk of Medi-  
             ation, I doubt they are too good Friends ; Well, this  
             will be news for Court, Town, and Country, in pri-  
             vate Letters, in the Gazette, and in abominable Bal-  
             lets, before it be long, and jeered to death by the pre-  
             tending Wits; but, goods Gentlemen, keep this as a  
             Secret, and let not me be the Author , for you will  
             hear abundantly of it before it be long.  
          
          
             Advis. But, Madam Mediator, this is no Secret, it  
             is known all the Town over, and the State is preparing  
             to entertain the Prince.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Lord ! to see how ill news will fly so  
             soon abroad?  
          
          
             Courtly. Ill news indeed for us Wooers.  
          
          
             Advis. We only wooed in Imagination but not in  
             Reality.  
          
          
             M. Media. But you all had hopes.  
          
          
             Advis. We had so; but she only has the fruition:  
             for it is said, the Prince and she are agreed to Marry;  
             and the State is so willing, as they account it an honour,  
             and hope shall reap much advantage by the Match.  
          
          
             M. Mediat. Yes, yes; but there is an old and true  
          
          
              Saying,   
          
          
          
             50 The Convent of Pleasure. Act V.  
          
          
             Saying , There's much between the Cup and the Lip.  
             Exeunt.  
             S C E N E III.  
          
          
             Enter the Prince as Bridegroom , and the Lady Happy  
          
          
             as Bride, hand in hand under a Canopy horn over their  
             heads by Men; the Magistrates march before , then  
             the Hoboys ; and then the Bridal-Guests , as coming  
             from the Church, where they were Married.  
          
          
             All the Company bids them joy, they thank them.  
          
          
             Madam Mediator.  
              A Lthough your Highness will not stay to feast with  
             your Guests, pray Dance before you go.  
          
          
             Princ. We will both Dance and Feast before we  
             go; come Madam let us Dance, to please Madam  
             Mediator.  
          
          
             The Prince and Princess Dance.  
          
          
             Princ. Now, Noble Friends, Dance you; and  
             the Princess, and I, will rest our selves.  
          
          
             After they have Danced, the Lady Happy, as now Prin-  
             cess,speaks to the Land Vertue.  
          
          
             L. Happy speaks to L.Vertue. Lady Vertue, I perceive  
             you keep Mimick still.  
              L. Happy.   
          
          
             Scen. III. The Convent of Pleasure. 51  
             L. Happy to the Prince. Sir, this is the Mimick I told  
          
          
             you of.  
             L.Happy to Mimick. Mimick, will you leave your  
             Lady and go with me?  
          
          
             Mimick. I am a Married Man, and have Married  
             my Ladies Maid Nan, and she will keep me at home  
             do what I can; but you've now a Mimick of your  
             own, for the Prince has imitated a Woman.  
          
          
             L.Happy. What you Rogue,do you call me a Fool?  
          
          
             Mimick. Not I, please your Highness, unless all  
          
          
             Women be Fools.  
          
          
             Princ. Is your Wife a Fool?  
          
          
             Mimick. Man and Wife, 'tis said, makes but one  
             Fool.  
             He kneels to the Prince.  
             Mimick. I have an humble Petition to your High-  
             ness.  
             Princ. Rise; What Petition is that?  
          
          
             Mimick. That your Highness would be pleased to  
          
          
             divide the Convent in two equal parts; one for Fools,  
          
          
             and th' other for Married Men, as mad Men.  
             Princ. I'le divide it for Virgins and Widows.  
             Mimick. That will prove a Convent of Pleasure in-  
             deed; but they will never agree, especially if there be  
             some disguised Prince amongst them ; but you had  
             better bestow it on old decrepit and bed-rid Matrons,  
             and then it may be call'd the Convent of Charity, if it  
             cannot possibly be named the Convent of Chastity.  
              O  Princ.   
          
          
          
             52 The Convent of Pleasure. Act V.  
          
          
             Princ. Well, to shew my Charity, and to keep  
             your Wife's Chastity, I'le bestow my bounty in a  
             Present , on the Condition you speak the Epilogue.  
             Come, Noble Friends, let us feast before we part.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  
          
          
             Mimick Solus.  
          
          
             Mimick. An Epilogue says he, the devil an Epilogue  
          
          
             have I : let me study.  
             He questions and answers Himself.  
          
          
             I have it, have it; No faith, I have it not; I lie,  
             I have it, I say, I have it not; Fie Mimick, will you  
             lie? Yes, Mimick, I will lie, if it be my pleasure:  
             But I say, it is gone; What is gone? The Epilogue;  
             When had you it? I never had it; then you did not  
             lose it; that is all one, but I must speak it, although  
             I never had it; How can you speak it, and never had  
             it? I marry, that's the question ; but words are nothing,  
             and then an Epilogue is nothing, and so I may speak  
             nothing; Then nothing be my Speech.  
          
          
              Noble   
          
          
             Scene. III. The Convent of Pleasure. 53  
          
          
             He Speaks the EPILOGUE.  
          
          
              N Oble Spectators by this Candle-light,  
          
          
             I know not what to say, but bid, Good Night :  
             I dare not beg Applause, our Poetess then  
          
          
             Will he enrag'd, and kill me with her Pen;  
          
          
             For she is careless, and is void of fear ;  
          
          
             If you dislike her Play she doth not care.  
             But I shall weep , my inward Grief shall show  
             Through Floods of Tears, that your my Eyes will flow.  
             And so poor Mimick he for furrow die.  
          
          
             And then through pity you may chance to cry :  
             But if you please, you may a Cordial give,  
          
          
             Made up with Praise, and so he long may live.  
          
          
             FINIS.  
          
          
          
             The ACTORS NAMES.  
          
          
              T Hree Gentlemen.  
          
          
             Lady Happy.  
             Madam Mediator.  
             Monsieur Take-pleasure, and Dick his Man.  
             Monsieur Facil.  
             Monsieur Adviser.  
             Monsieur Courtly.  
             Lady Amorous.  
             Lady Vertue.  
             The Princess.  
             Two mean Women.  
             A Lady, and her Maid.  
             Two Ladies.  
             A distracted Lady, and her Maid.  
             A Citizen's Wife.  
             Two Ancient Ladies.  
          
          
             A Gentleman and a Young Lady.  
             A Shepherd.  
             Sea-Nymphs.  
             An Ambassador.  
          
          
             Advertisement to the Reader.  
          
          
              T He Reader is desir'd to take notice, That the follow-  
          
          
             ing Fragments are part of a Play which I did intend  
             for my Blazing-World, and had been Printed with it, if I  
          
          
             had finish'd it; but before I had ended the second Act, finding  
             that my Genius did not tend that way, I left that design ;  
             and now putting some other Comedies to the Press, I suffer  
             this Piece of One to be Publish'd with them.  
          
          
             ACT I. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Puppy Dogman, and Monsieur Ass.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy Dogman.  
          
          
              M Onsieur Ass, you are the only person in the  
          
          
             whole World, l am ambitious to be acquainted  
          
          
             with.  
             M. Ass. I am your thrice humble servant, Sir Puppy.  
             Sir Puppy. I am informed you arethe best drolling,  
              A  gulling,   
          
          
          
             2 A Piece of a Play. Act I.  
             gulling, and Libel-wit in this Kingdom.  
          
          
             M. Ass. I confess my Genius hath been happy that  
          
          
             way.  
             Sir Puppy. That Genius would I learn, for it is the  
             only Genius that is in fashion amongst the Mode-Wits;  
             and it is reported, that you are the friend,and a confident  
             to the Mode-Wits.  
          
          
             M. Ass. I confess that I am not only a friend and a  
             confident, but a head of the Company of the Mode.  
             Wits.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. They cannot be better headed then by an  
             Asse's head; and therefore I desire to be one of the  
             Company; but pray you, inform me, Monsieur Ass,  
             What gulling-Wit is ? for I am but newly come out  
             of the Country , and an unacquainted with the Wit  
             of the Town.  
          
          
             M. Ass. Gulling-Wit is lying Wit; and I will as-  
          
          
             sure you, Sir, it expresses much fancy to make lies.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. Are.thole Poetical Fancies?  
          
          
             M. Ass. Hang Poetical Fancies, for they are Pictures  
             of ideas in the Minds; but gulling-lies are to abuse the  
          
          
             Generality, making of News, and several reports of  
          
          
             Peace, Wars, State-affairs of great Monarchs, and  
             their Councils , and so of all things, and of particular  
             persons.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. And what is drolling and raillery Wit?  
             M Ass. That sort of Wit is to rail of, and abuse  
             particular persons, under the pretence of Jesting.  
          
          
              Sir   
          
          
             Scene. I. A Piece of a Play. 3  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. Then What is Libel-Wit?  
             M. Ass. Libel-Wit is to defame great and Noble  
             Persons.  
             Sir Puppy. Monsieur Ass, you have infinitely obli-  
             ged me with your informations, for which I shall be  
             your eternal Servant.  
             M. Ass. I am your Slave,Sir Puppy Dogman.  
             Exeunt.  
             Enter the Lady Eagle, Lady Sparrow, Lady Titmous,  
             Lady Woodcock, Lady Hornet, Lady Chaffer,  
             the Lady Cricket, and Others.  
          
          
             Eagle. Is the Lady Phoenix come to Town?  
          
          
             Woodcock. No; but it is reported, that she is coming  
             to Town in such splendor, as the World never saw  
             the like.  
          
          
             Sparrow. Lord! how much splendor?  
          
          
             Woodcock. So much as will astonish all her Spectators.  
          
          
             Titmous. I cannot perceive what splendor she can  
             appear in to astonish all that behold her.  
          
          
             Eagle. I desire if any one of the Town know her,  
             to describe her to me.  
          
          
             Cricket. There are many that pretend to know her,  
             but I observe,they give such different Characters of her,  
             that makes me believe they do not know her?  
          
          
             Eagle. Who are those that pretend to know her?  
          
          
             Cricket. Sir Blind-Buzzard is one, and the Lady Wasp  
             is another.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
          
             4 A Piece of a Play. Act I.  
             Enter Sir Blind-Buzzard and the Lady Wasp.  
          
          
             Eagle. You are welcome; I was sending for you, for  
             'tis said you two know the Lady Phoenix.  
             Buzzard. We never saw her, but we have seen them  
             that have seen her.  
          
          
             Eagle. I am told, that she is coming to this City in  
             such splendour, as the World never saw.  
          
          
             Buzzard. Your Ladiship is truly informed, for she is  
             clothed all with light, and the beams issuing from that  
             night, makes her train many miles long, which is held  
             up by the Planets; also, she is perfumed with all the  
             Spices in the East-Indies ; her Chariot is made of air,  
             in the fashion of a Ship, and that airy Ship is gilded  
             with the Sun; She hath numerous Attendants, those  
             that usher her, are Blazing-Stars, and those that follow  
             her, are fiery Meteors.  
          
          
             Eagle. Doth the Ship hold all her Attendants?  
             Buzzard. Yes; for the Ship is bigger then the Great-  
             Soveraign.  
          
          
             Eagle. But the Great-Soveraign cannot hold all the  
             Planets.  
          
          
             Buzzard. Why, not as Well as Noah's Ark all sorts  
             of Beasts?  
             Eagle. Of what diet is she of ?  
          
          
             Buzzard. She feeds only upon Thoughts.  
          
          
             Cricket.Pray, Sir Blind-Buzzard, give me leave to tell  
             you one thing, that if her train be many miles long, no  
          
          
             House can contain the length.  
              Wasp.   
          
          
             Scen. II. A Piece Of a Play. 5  
          
          
             Wasp. But she hath an art to contract her beams  
             when she will.  
             Eagle. I desire much to see this Lady.  
             Wasp. When you see her, you will all dislike her.  
             Eagle. Why shall we all dislike her ?  
             Wasp. By reason none of the Female Sex can endure  
             to see any thing fairer then themselves.  
             Enter the Lady Monkey.  
             Eagle. Lady Monkey, did you ever see the Lady  
             Phoenix ?  
             Monkey. No, Madam, but I hearing of a Wonderful  
             Lady coming to this City, whose train spread so far  
             and long, as out of one Kingdom into another , carne  
             as speedily as I could to this Company to know the  
             truth.  
             Buzzard. The truth is, her Train is but some few  
             miles long.  
             Monkey. I cry you mercy, Sir Blind-Buzzard, I did  
             not see you; it seems you know this Lady.  
             Buzzard. I do not know her, but I have heard of  
             her.  
             Monkey. So have I, which made me come hither to  
             know if the report was true, for all reports are not true.  
             Enter Monsieur Ass.  
             Eagle. Monsieur Ass, did you ever see the Lady  
             Phoenix ?  
             M. Ass. No, but I am credibly informed, that she  
             is as proud as Lucifer, she despises her Superiors, and  
             scorns her Inferiors.  B  Enter.   
          
          
          
             6 A piece of a Play. Act I.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Puppy Dogman.  
          
          
             M. Ass. But Sir Puppy Dogman can inform you what  
             she is.  
             Puppy. What who is?  
          
          
             M. Ass. The Lady Phoenix.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. Hang her, for she is not Company for  
             a Dog.  
          
          
             Hornet. Do you know her ?  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. No, but l have heard of her.  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Worm-man.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. But Mr. Worm-man hath seen; did  
             you never see the Lady Phoneix, Mr. Worm-man?  
          
          
             Worm-man. No truly, I did never see her; but one  
             Mrs. Dormouse, that serves the Lady Leverit, is well ac-  
             quainted with her, for she did serve her.  
          
          
             Enter Madam Leverit, and her Maid Dormouse.  
          
          
             Eagle. Madam Leverit, we are informed that your  
             Maid Dormouse hath served the Lady Phoenix.  
          
          
             Dormouse. Yes, Madam, I served her many years.  
          
          
             Eagle. Of What Nature, Disposition and Conver-  
             sation is she ?  
          
          
             Dormouse. She is of a studious nature, in a retired  
             life, ever retiring from much Company, and of a  
             careless humour, not regarding what the World says,  
             or doth; in Company she is of a free Dispofition,and  
             an airy Conversation; she is civil to strangers, kind to  
             acquaintances, bountiful to her servants, and charitable  
             to the poor; also, she is humble to those that are re-  
          
          
              spectful,   
          
          
             Scen. lI. A Piece of a Play. 7  
          
          
             spectful, but severe to those that are rude.  
          
          
             M.Ass. Surely Mrs. Dormouse, you slept all the  
             time you serv'd her ; for certainly she is the proudest  
             Creature alive.  
          
          
             Dormouse. She may chance to seem proud to an  
             Ass, and vain to a Buzzard; but otherwise, she is as one  
             of her quality ought be. Exeunt.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
             Enter Lord Bearman, and the Lady Monkey.  
          
          
             Lord Bearman.  
              D Eear Lady Monkey, I come to present  
             My loving heart, without a Complement;  
          
          
             Let me embrace thee in my Amorous Arms,  
          
          
             Which makes a Circle of all loving Charms.  
          
          
             Monkey. Your first encounter is too rude and bold  
             To offer in your Arms me to infold.  
          
          
             Bearman. Yet give me leave, dear Lady, to admire,  
             Your agil Motions, VVit, and your Attire.  
             And with with all my heart you may love me,  
             For I with heart and soul will still love thee.  
          
          
             Monkey. I love a Lord, yet I would have him woo  
             In Courtly Language, as Lovers use to do;  
             And his Address, Behaviour, Speech and Clothes  
          
          
             All a la mode, not a la mode his Oaths;  
          
          
              And   
          
          
          
             8 A Piece of a Play. Act I.  
          
          
             And such a Lover I will entertain,  
             But Lovers out of fashion I disdain.  
          
          
             Barman. I do confess I want those rules and arts  
             As such Men have that are nam'd Men of Parts.  
             But such Men as there are not natural,  
          
          
             For all Mode-Gallants are artificial ;  
          
          
             But for your sake, I will go to Mode's School  
          
          
             To learn Mode's falhions for to play the Fool.  
             Exit the Lord Bearman.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Puppy Dogman.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. Dear Lady Monkey,I am come here to play  
             An hour or two to pass the time away;  
             To run, to skip, to dance, and so to woo  
             In lively pastimes, as Lovers us'd to do.  
          
          
             Monkey. You are deceived,Mode-Lovers woo not so,  
             But cringe and creep, being afraid to go,  
             Or stir, or speak, but only with eye-glances,  
             He to his Mistress love, his heart advances;  
             Besides, your Garments are to mean and base,  
             And such a Lover would a disgrace  
             To a fair Lady ; wherefore, come not neer,  
             Unless you like a Gallant do appear.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy. I will go to a Taylor for to make  
             Me a rich Suit for my dear Ladies sake.  
          
          
              ACT   
          
          
             Scen. I. A Piece of a Play. 9  
          
          
             ACT II. SCENE I.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Politick Fox-man, Solus.  
          
          
              T He Lady Leverit is a rich Widow , but a dull  
             Melancholy Lady;which humour is best befitting,  
             and most agreeable to a studious Politician ; but let her  
             humour be merry or sad, I care not, for 'tis her  
             Riches that I covet.  
             Enter Mr. Worm-man.  
             Fox. O dear friend,Mr-Worm-man! have you made  
             any enquiry about the rich Widow, the Lady Leverit?  
             Worm-man. I have not only enquired, but I have  
             spied out another Lover of hers, which is Monsieur  
             Satyr.  
             Foxman. A Pox on Monsieur Satyr; but surely she  
             will never entertain a Satyr.  
             Worm-man. That may be a question; for though  
             Satyrs for the most part wooes in a crabed , and harsh  
             stile; yet for the most part they are well beloved of  
             Ladies.  
             Fox-man. But do you think she will marry him?  
             Worm-man. I cannot judge, because many Wo-  
             men, especially Widows,marry, as you would marry,  
             for Interest, not for Love; besides, many Women  
             have Lovers for their use, and marry Husbands for  
          
          
             their abuse.  
             Fox-man. But when I am married, I will keep her  
          
          
             from abusing me.  C  Worm-   
          
          
          
             10 A Piece of a Play Act. II.  
          
          
             Worm-man. If you have that Art, it is and Art that  
             only you, and other man, hath as yet found out;  
          
          
             but the best way is to woo her , and then wed her if  
          
          
             you can.  
          
          
             Fox-man. I shall take your Counsel; but pray you  
          
          
             advise me whether I should woo her in Verse, or in  
          
          
             Prose?  
          
          
             Worm-man. Certainly the best way is to woo her  
             in Prose; for I never heard that ever subtle Politi-  
             cian was ever a good Poet.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Well, your advice, dear friend, I will  
             follow : But let ask your advice once more, which  
             is, Whether I shall first present my affection in a Letter,  
             before I speak to her in person.  
          
          
             Worm-man. Truly, my advice is, That you shall  
             send her Letters; for Ladies take great delight to read  
             Love-Letters; besides, it proves you will be constant,  
             when your affections are declared under your hand and  
             seal: But why do you, a Politician, ask advice?  
          
          
             Fox-man. Because Politicians require information;  
             But how shall my Letter be delivered?  
          
          
             Worm-man. I am well acquainted with Mrs. Dor-  
             mouse her Maid, and I will deliver the Letter to her,  
          
          
             and she'l present it to her Lady.  
             Exit Mr. Worm-man.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scene. I. A Piece of a Play. II  
          
          
             Enter the LordBear-man, all Accoutred in the mode,  
             and all in the mode, careless, and with Congies.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Sir Politick Fox-man, my dear and obli-  
             ging friend, how do I love thee ! for thou art the most  
             meritorious person in the whole World.  
          
          
             Fox-man. I am your Lordships most humble ser-  
             vant; and I wish it was in my power to serve so great  
             a person as you are; l perceive your Lordship is for  
             the Court to day, you are so accoutred.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Although I am not for the Court, yet  
             I am for Courtship.  
          
          
             Fox-man. I perceive your Lordship is a Lover.  
          
          
             Bear-man. I should be otherwise out of the mode;  
             but the Ladies do so flock about me, since I have put  
             my self into the mode, and do so Court me, as I can-  
             not have time to make a particular Courtship.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Your Lordship is a happy man.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Faith, if happiness be to have the love of  
             many Ladies, I am happy; but l have one Lady that I  
             value and love above all the rest, and I hope she will  
             love me now I am in the mode.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Surely your Lordship cannot be more  
             modified then you are.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Not for Clothes ; but I fear I have not  
             the right Mode in behaviour and speech ; but I will go and  
             visit my Mistress, and see if she approves of me.  
          
          
             Exit the Lord Bear-man  Enter   
          
          
          
             12 A Piece of a Play. Act II  
          
          
             Enter Sir Puppy Dogman all in Mode-Accoutrements  
             Puppy. O Sir Politick Fox!I have a quarrel with you.  
             Fox-man. With me, Sir Puppy! it cannot be, for I am  
          
          
             your vassal, your slave, and do study all the ways to  
             serve you; and assure your felt you shall find me as faith-  
             ful in all your employments, or concerns, as any friend  
             you have.  
          
          
             Puppy. I cannot but believe you , if I be in the  
             Mode, which is to be a self-conceited Puppy: But pri-  
             thee tell me, am I not a Mode-Gallant?  
          
          
             Fox-man. No doubt but you out-mode all the Gal-  
             lants in the Town, as far as I see, in behaviour and  
             accoutrements.  
          
          
             Puppy. Yes,but I am more modified then so; for I have  
             been at a Coffee-house, and a Tavern , and have en-  
             tertained a Mistress, and in a short time I hope I shall  
             be able to brag , not only of several Lady-Mistresses,  
             but that I have the Pox.  
          
          
             Fox-man. These modes I fear will be both chargable  
             and unhealthful.  
          
          
             Puppy. They are no Moders that regard health, or  
             expences; but I will tell you, that there is anotherMode  
             that must learn, which is to defame great Ladies, not  
             only in private discourse, but in publick Lampoons,or  
             elfe I shall not, when I am poor; get young Puppys  
             like my self to pay my score, or for my lodging; nor  
             shall borrow one peny , neither shall I be cry'd up  
             for a Wit.  
          
          
              Fox-   
          
          
             Scen. I. A Piece of a Play. 13  
          
          
             Fox-man. But these Modes are Modes for inferior  
             persons, not such persons of quality as you are.  
          
          
             Puppy. Nay faith, in this age there is no difference  
             between the noble and base ; but if there be, 'tis to the  
             advantage of the mean and base persons; but fare you  
             well, for I must go to a Mistress and dissemble in Com-  
             plements, and then I shall be an absolute Mode-gallant;  
             for there is no art so much practised in this age, amongst  
             all sorts and degrees of men, as dissembling.  
          
          
             Exit Sir Puppy Dogman.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Lord! Lord! what an age is this for Fools.  
          
          
             Enter Worm-man.  
          
          
             Fox-man. What makes your quick return?  
          
          
             Worm-man. A quick dispatch.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Have you deliver'd my Letter?  
          
          
             Worm-man. Yes, and have brought you an answer.  
          
          
             L E T T E R.  
             Sir Politick,  
          
          
             I have received your affectionate Letter, and I shall  
             willingly hear your Suit, and if it be reasonable, grant your  
             request, being more then an ordinary friend and your humble  
             Servant, S. Leverit.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Dear friend, this Letter is more then I  
             could hope for, in so short a time.  
          
          
             Worm-man. Now she is in a wise humour, towards a  
             wise Politician, go immediately and woo her.  
          
          
             Fox-man. I will take your Counsel, dear friend.  
          
          
             Exeunt.  D  SCENE   
          
          
          
             14 A Piece of a Play. Act II.  
          
          
             SCENE II.  
          
          
             Enter Sir Puppy Dogma to the Lady Monkey, drest  
             in the Mode, and as he is coming into the Room, trims  
             and dresses himself; then stands a little time , and leers  
          
          
             about, and then creeps, cringes, and wiggles his breech,  
          
          
             and then speaks.  
          
          
             Sir Puppy Dogman.  
              L Ady, I should have come sooner to have sacrified  
             my self and all my fortunes to your service; but  
             that I had sent my Coach and six Horses to a Friend.  
          
          
             Monkey. He was not your Friend if he kept you  
          
          
             from your Mistress.  
             Puppy. I confess I was infinitely displeased , in be-  
             ing hindred from the Coelestial prospect of your beauty.  
          
          
             Enter the Lord Bear-man all drest in the mode, and  
             comes boldly up to the Lady , and kisses her hand;  
          
          
             Dogman frowns and grins.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Madam, are you for a Play? or Court?  
             or High-Park to day ? if you be, I, as the humblest of  
             your Servants, will attend upon you.  
          
          
             Puppy. I have offer'd the Lady Monkey my Coach  
             and six Horses before you came.  
          
          
             Bear-man. It was your duty so to do; but yet my  
             Coach and six Horses is to be prefer'd before yours,  
          
          
              being   
          
          
             Scene. II. A Piece of as Play. 15  
             being a Lords Coach, and six Horses ; neither ought  
             such as you to have a Coach and six Horses.  
          
          
             Puppy. A Gentleman is as good as a Lord; and so I  
             am as good as you  
          
          
             Bear-man. Go,go,and enquire of the Herauld of our  
             Pedigrees.  
          
          
             Puppy. No,a Herauld cannot decide our quarrel, but  
             this Sword shall maintain my honour , and decide the  
             dispute.  
          
          
             Monkey. Pray do not fight here in my house , to  
             fright me with your quarrels.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Do not fear our fighting; but if we did  
             not quarrel in the presence of our Mistress, we should  
          
          
             not be right in the Mode.  
          
          
             Puppy. But I shall call your Lordship to a strict ac-  
             count.  
          
          
             Monkey. Pray be friends; for it is the Mode for many  
             Lovers to agree, and be dear and loving friends.  
          
          
             Bear-man. That Mode of many Lovers is a Matri-  
             monial Mode,as-the Lovers of a Married Wife; but not  
             the lovers of a young and virtuous Virgin.  
          
          
             Puppy. My Lord Bear-man tells you-true ; where-  
             fore, we must fight.  
          
          
             Monkey. I desire you, as you love me,not to fight.  
          
          
             Puppy. 'Tis against the Laws of Nature, for a Bear-  
             man and a Dogman to be friends.  
          
          
             Monkey. Bears seldom assault the Dogs, but Dogs  
          
          
             assault the Bears; and for the most part have the worst;  
              for   
          
          
          
             16 A Piece of a Play. Act lI.  
          
          
             for many Dogs are kill'd by one Bear, but seldom a Bear  
             is kill'd, although assaulted by many Dogs at once;  
             wherefore, I pray Sir Puppy do not fight.  
             Puppy. I shall obey you, dear Madam; and being so  
             infinitely obliged, give me leave to kiss your hand.  
             Kisses her Hand. Exit.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Madam, you have given a just cause both  
          
          
             to quarrel and fight.  
          
          
             Monkey. Pray have patience;for 'tis the Mode amongst  
          
          
             Ladies to give their hand to one man, and their heart  
             to another man. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Mr. Worm-man, and Sir Politick Fox-man.  
          
          
             Worm-man. Now you have been with the rich  
             Widow, pray tell us the success of your Wooing, or  
             Courtship?  
          
          
             Fox-man. Faith, I have had as good success as I  
             could desire; for she hath entertained me civilly, and  
             hath promised me kindly to grant all my reasonable  
             desires.  
          
          
             Worm-man. But reason is seldom regular in Lovers.  
          
          
             Bear-man. Yes, when in cases of Interest, but not in  
             cases of Appetite.  
          
          
             Worm-man. But Appetite is for the most part pre-  
          
          
             valent with ignorant Virgins, but not with experienced  
          
          
             Widows.  
          
          
              Enter   
          
          
             Scen. II. A Piece of a Play. 17  
          
          
             Enter Monsieur Satyr, leading Madam Leverit, upon  
             which sight Sir Politick Fox-man runs into a hole  
             behind the Hangings, and the while Monsieur Satyr  
          
          
             is whispering in the ear of Madam Leverit, and  
          
          
             kissing her hand, the Fox-man peeps out, and shakes  
             his head; but after these Lovers were out of sight,  
             the Fox-man comes out of his hole, and speaks to the  
             Worm-man.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Are they gone?  
          
          
             Worm-man. Yes.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Ill luck go with them.  
          
          
             Worm-man. They might have had some misfortune,  
             for it was in your power to have disturbed their  
             Courtship.  
          
          
             Fox-man. How could have I disturbed them?  
          
          
             Worm-man. Why, you might have fought with  
             him, and have shew'd your valour to your Mistress,  
             and perchance have been revenged of your Rival, by  
             killing him.  
             Fox-man. So I should have proved my self a Fool,  
             instead of a Politician, for there is hazard in sight, whether  
             to kill or be kill'd; and if I be kill'd, I shall be soon  
             forgotten, and my enemy will have the reputation to  
             be the more skilful, and valianter Dueller; and if I  
             kill my opposite, l may lose my estate; besides, it was  
             never heard nor known, that great and subtil Politicians  
             were Valiant, and seldom that ever any Politician did  
             fight, were it upon necessity, which the greatest Cowards  
             will do.  E   Worm-man.   
          
          
          
             18 A Piece of a Play. Act II.  
          
          
             Worm-man. Then Politicians Will never get a Mi-  
             stress from a Heroick Cavalier.  
          
          
             Fox-man. I confess it were a difficult business if Po-  
             liticians had not more subtilty to get, then valour to  
             fight: But give me leave to tell you, That Politicians  
             undermine Valour, as you do a tall and magnificent  
             Tree, or a sweet flower; wherefore, I make no questi-  
             on but to undermine the sweet Lady and her Cavalier.  
          
          
             Worm-man. l wish you may; but if your policy  
             fails, you will lose the rich Widow.  
          
          
             Fox-man. Never fear. Exeunt.  
          
          
             Enter Lady Monkey, and Squirrel her Maid, as in  
             a visit to the Lady Leverit.  
          
          
             Leverit. Lady Monkey, you have prevented me, for  
             I was going to visit your Ladiship, I only stay'd for  
             Monsieur Satyr to usher me.  
          
          
             Monkey. I hear Monfieur Satyr is your Servant, and  
             that there is an intended match between you.  
          
          
             Lever. I desire your advice in the choice of a Husband,  
             for I have many Suiters, but the number confounds my  
             Choice, wherefore I desire your assistance, to help me in  
             my Choice.  
          
          
             Monkey. l shall give the best advice l can, if you de-  
             clare to me, who are your Suiters.  
          
          
             Lever. My Suiters are Sir Politick Fox, Monsieur Satyr,  
             Monfieur Ass, and Sir Puppy Dogman.  
          
          
             Monkey. Is Sir Puppy Dogman your Suiter?  
          
          
             Lever. Yes,and so earnest a Suiter he is, that he will not  
             let me rest in quiet.  Monkey.   
          
          
             Scen. II. A Piece of a Play. 19  
             Monkey. It seems Sir Puppy Dogman is a false diffem-  
          
          
             bling man, for he Courts me with as many professions  
             of love, as any man in the World can do.  
          
          
             Squirrel. If it please your Honour, that is usual with  
             Mode-Gallants to Court all the Ladies they discourse  
          
          
             with, and not only the Ladies, but the Ladie's Maids.  
          
          
             Monkey. Did he ever Court you?  
             Squirrel. As much as your Ladiship, for when you  
             are out of the way, he hunts me from room to room.  
          
          
             Lever. I do believe Mrs. Squirrel, for I have heard  
          
          
             my Maid Dormouse say, That Monsieur Satyr would  
          
          
             not let her sleep in quiet.  
             Monkey. If Mode-Gallants be of such a various  
             humour, I will never marry a Mode-Gallant.  
             Squ.Then yourHonour will not have a Mode-Husband.  
             Monkey. Why, do Mode-Husbands love Variety?  
             Squirrel. I know not whether they love Variety, but  
             they Court many Women; for Mode-Husbands are  
             for the most part Wittals, and they Court many Women  
             to hide their disgrace.  
          
          
             Lever. Mrs. Squirrel speaks true, for my Husband Sir  
          
          
             Horn-buck, was a Wittal,and he would court all the heard  
             of Females he met with; and the truth is, that Mode-  
             Husbands are the best Husbands, by reason they suffer  
             their Wives to be Courted.  
             Squ. Then surely Mr. Ass will be an excellent Husband.  
             Monkey. I am of your opinion, Squirrel.  
             Lever. Then l will leave the Satyr, Foxman, and Dog-  
             man, and chuse Monfieur Ass.  Squir-   
          
          
          
             20 A Piece of a Play. Act II.  
          
          
             Squirrel. In truth Monsieur Ass is a fine Gentleman,  
             and is the greatest Wit in the Town.  
             Enter Monsieur Ass.  
             Leverit. You are welcome Monsieur Ass, we were  
          
          
             speaking of you.  
          
          
             Ass. It is an honour for me to be mentioned by  
          
          
             fair Ladies; and if you please sweet Ladies to let me  
             usher your splendorous Beauties to a Play, I shall ac-  
             count my self the happiest Man alive.  
          
          
             Monkey. Can you usher our Beauties without our  
          
          
             Persons, Monsieur Ass.  
          
          
             Ass. No Madam, for your Beauties and Persons are  
             inseperably joyn'd together.  
          
          
             Monkey. The Fates forbid that my Person should last  
             no longer then my Beauty, for then I am sure to have  
             but a short life: But what Play is it that you would  
          
          
             usher us to?  
          
          
             Ass. To a Mode-Play.  
          
          
             Monkey. Mode-Plays are all Rhime, and no reason,  
             or all Action and no Wit.  
          
          
             Ass. To tell you the truth Lady, I am the Au-  
             thor the Play that is acted to day.  
          
          
             Monkey. If you be the Author, Monsieur Ass, surely  
             the Play is an excellent Play; wherefore, Lady Leverit  
             let us go and see this Play, that is of Monsieur Ass's  
             making.  
          
          
             Leverit. Content.  
             Exeunt.  
          
          
              T he Names of the Actors of the foregoing Piece  
             of a Play.  
          
          
             Lord Bear-man, |  
             Sir Puppy Dog-man, | Both Suiters to the Lady Monkey  
          
          
             Sir Politick Fox, |  
             Monsieur Satyr, | Both Suiters to the Lady Leviret.  
          
          
             Mr. Worm-man, A Friend to Sir Politick Fox.  
          
          
             Monsieur Ass, A Libel-maker.  
             | A Gamster, and a  
             Sir Blind-Buzzard | Servant to Ladies.  
             The Lady Eagle, and many other Ladies; as Lady  
             Woodcock, Sparrow, Titmouse, Chaffer, and others;  
             The Lady Monkey, Mrs. Squirrel her Maid.  
             Lady Leviret. Mrs. Dormouse her Maid.  
          
          
              T He following Names were fitted for a Farse,intended to  
             have been after the Play in the Blazing-World; But  
             the Play being never finish'd, for the Reasons mention'd in  
             the Front of the Piece of that Play; The Farse was not  
          
          
             so much as begun  
          
          
             A Friend to Sir Politick Fox.  
             A Libel-maker.  
          
          
             Cobweb Spider, A Weaver.  
             Eagle Flyman, A Piper, |  a Lover to Spider's  Wife.   
             Dig Worm-man, A Miner for Mettal.  
             Fish Glide-man, A Diver.  
             Gib Cat-man, One of the Watch.  
             Mode Owle, A night Reveller.  
          
          
             Goodwife Silkworm, A Spinstress.  
             Goodwife Spider. Cobweb Spider's Wife.  
             Madam Bat. Mode Owle's Curtizan.  
          
       
    